<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/cef-e-2024-pci-pmi-studies","file_display_name":"Electricity, Gas, Smart Grids, Hydrogen and CO₂ networks - Studies","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:This topic aims to enable PCIs and PMIs to be implemented within the framework of the deployment of trans-European networks in the energy sector. In particular, the call shall contribute to supporting energy infrastructure PCIs and PMIs that have significant socio-economic benefits and ensure greater solidarity among Member States, but which do not receive adequate financing from the market.Projects supported by this call pursue the goals and objectives of the European Green Deal, as well as the Paris Agreement and the 2030 climate and energy targets and long-term decarbonisation objectives. Therefore, financial assistance provided under this call for proposals should maximise its added value towards decarbonisation of the energy sector. The EU Grid Action Plan underlines the critical importance of electricity grids in the energy transition.
Objective:The objective of this topic is to support and contribute to the implementation of PCIs and PMIs. 
Scope:This topic refers to projects for studies contributing to the preparation of the implementation of a PCI or a PMI. Studies in the meaning of CEF Energy include activities needed to prepare project implementation, such as preparatory, mapping, feasibility, evaluation, testing and validation studies, including in the form of software, and any other technical support measure, including prior action to define and develop a project and decide on its financing, site / route identification and preparation of the financial package.Only projects contributing to PCIs and PMIs as identified in the list of PCIs and PMIs shall be eligible for support through EU financial aid in the form of grants. Pursuant to Article 18 of the TEN-E Regulation (EU) 2022/869, PCIs or PMIs falling under the energy infrastructure categories set out in Article 24 and Annex II of the TEN-E Regulation are eligible for EU financial assistance in the form of grants for studies.
Expected Impact:As indicated in section 1 of the Annex to the Multi-annual Work Programme (Commission Implementing Decision C(2024) 482), it is expected that the financial assistance contributes to the further development and implementation of PCIs and PMIs helping to achieve the broader TEN-E policy objectives and the CEF energy policy objectives of:further integration of an efficient and competitive internal energy market,interoperability of networks across borders and sectors,facilitating decarbonisation of the economy, promoting energy efficiency and ensuring security of supply. In accordance with recital 5 of the CEF Regulation (EU) 2021/1153 and in line with the Multi-annual Work Programme, this call for proposals aims at financing projects contributing to the goals and objectives of the European Green Deal, as well as the Paris Agreement and the 2030 climate and energy targets and the EU's mid-term and long-term objectives in terms of decarbonisation.


Conditions: 
 
Conditions
1.&nbsp;Admissibility conditions: described in section 5 of the call document
Proposal page limits and layout:&nbsp;described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries:&nbsp;described in section 6 of of the call document
3. Other eligibility conditions:&nbsp;described in section 6 of the call document
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion:&nbsp;described in&nbsp;section 7 of the call document
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and thresholds:&nbsp;described in section 9 of the call document
    


    
    Submission and evaluation processes:&nbsp;described&nbsp;section 8 of the call document and the&nbsp;Online Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for evaluation and grant agreement:&nbsp;described in section 4 of the call document
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants:&nbsp;described&nbsp;in section 10 of the call document
&nbsp;
Documents
 
Call documents:
Call document 
Application form&nbsp;
Detailed budget table
Timetable / Gantt&nbsp;chart
Environmental compliance file
Letter of support (Member State agreement)
TEN-E compliance form
Business plan financial spreadsheet
CEF MGA
Work Programme 2021-2027 (CEF-E)
CEF Regulation 2021/1153
EU Financial Regulation 2018/1046
TEN-E Regulation (EU) 2022/869

Support Info: 
For help related to this&nbsp;call, please contact:&nbsp;CINEA-CEF-ENERGY-CALLS@ec.europa.eu
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; Submission of proposals.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash; Contact the IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
Online Manual&nbsp;&ndash; Step-by-step online guide through the Portal processes from proposal preparation and submission to reporting on your on-going project. Valid for all 2021-2027 programmes.

