<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/edf-edirpa-2024-fnlc-amd-cs","file_display_name":"Common procurement of air and missile defence capabilities and systems","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
Objective:The objectives of the Instrument are to foster the competitiveness and efficiency of the EDTIB by speeding up its adjustment to the new security environment and to foster cooperation in defence procurement processes between participating Member States and associated countries.In this perspective, actions involving cooperation for common procurement of the most urgent and critical defence products, including those revealed or exacerbated by the response to the Russian aggression against Ukraine, will be targeted by the funding priorities of the Work Programme. The latter in particular aim to ensure timely availability of sufficient quantities to fill the most urgent capability gaps, as referred to in Chapter 4 of the Joint Communication on Defence Investment Gaps Analysis of 18 May 2022.
Scope:Any eligible action as defined in Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2023/2418, that aims at supporting common procurement for a wide range of capabilities/systems within air defence, air missile or missile defence. Included in this but not limited to (very) short range air defence systems ((V)SHORAD), man portable air defence systems (MANDPAD), high to medium air defence (HIMAD), ground to air ammunition, counter unmanned air systems (C-UASs), air surveillance radars and air defence radars.EDIRPA targets cooperation in defence procurement between at least 3 Member States or EDIRPA associated countries. The cooperation should concern the common procurement of defence systems or variants of systems.The activities to be funded are all those required for the set-up and operationalisation of common defence procurement in the area of air and missile defence capabilities and systems.
Expected Impact:The outcome should contribute to the reinforcement of air and missile defence capabilities of the participants. Furthermore, it should contribute to the replenishment of depleted stockpiles and to increase existing stockpiles. It is also intended to lead to increased interoperability among participants.The expected estimated value of a common procurement for actions under this topic aiming to ensure the availability of sufficient quantities of the most urgent and critical defence products to fill the most urgent capability gaps is EUR 250 000 000.


Conditions: 
1. Admissibility conditions: described in section 5 of the call document
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System. Proposals are limited to maximum 70 pages (Part B).
2. Eligible countries: described in section 6 of the call document &nbsp;
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in section 6 of the call document
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in section 7 of the call document
5. Evaluation and award:
Award criteria, scoring and thresholds: described in section 9 of the call document
Submission and evaluation processes: described section 8 of the call document and the Online Manual
Indicative timeline for evaluation and grant agreement: described in section 4 of the call document &nbsp;
6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in section 10 of the call document &nbsp;
 
Call documents:&nbsp;
Call document&nbsp;
Templates for proposals should be downloaded from the Submission System, the links below are examples only:

    EDIRPA application form
    Calculator EDIRPA
    Participant Info (EDIRPA)

Applicable Model Grant Agreement:
EDF, ASAP and EDIRPA Lump Sum MGA - Multi &amp; Mono V1.0
Additional documents:&nbsp;
EDIRPA Work Programme
EDIRPA Regulation 2023/2418&nbsp;
EU Financial Regulation 2018/1046&nbsp;
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment&nbsp;
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement&nbsp;
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual&nbsp;
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions&nbsp;
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
For help related to this&nbsp;call, please contact: DEFIS-EDIRPA-PROPOSALS@ec.europa.eu
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; Submission of proposals.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash; Contact the IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
Online Manual&nbsp;&ndash; Step-by-step online guide through the Portal processes from proposal preparation and submission to reporting on your on-going project. Valid for all 2021-2027 programmes.

