<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/edf-2024-ra-digit-asmep","file_display_name":"Automated structural modelling for effect prediction","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
Objective:The effects of attacks on structures such as buildings, plants, oil tanks, pipelines, bridges, dams, etc., are a common subject of concern to military planners and engineers, weaponeers, munition designers, battle damage assessors, and modelling and simulation analysts and developers. However, predicting such effects currently involves a large uncertainty due to the difficulty in estimating the relevant characteristics of these structures. There is therefore a need to efficiently estimate such characteristics from available data such as imagery or documentation and to combine them with effect prediction models to provide reliable predictions. During operations, this should be performed in a limited time and possibly with limited available computing power. This is especially important for relatively large urban areas including many structures.Software solutions for automated structural modelling and effect prediction should therefore be developed. They should offer the best possible accuracy, and trust should be ensured in the measurement of their performances. Given the complexity of the task, they need to rely not only on physics-based models but also on artificial intelligence, and they should be evaluated in an objective manner on data that is representative of the targeted use cases. This involves the collection and annotation of representative data. In order to ensure the reproducibility of experiments and for economic reasons, it is important that such data is reusable for similar developments, including by other technology developers. It also involves the testing of systems on new data using documented metrics and testing protocols, in a way that ensures comparability with similar systems developed by such other actors.Models for the prediction of effects of weapons on structures are often used in conjunction with other models in decision support tools, for example to estimate freedom of manoeuvre or effectiveness of communication. Scalability and compatibility with such other models and tools should therefore be ensured.
Scope:Proposals must address the development and evaluation of software systems for modelling structures from multisource imagery and other relevant available data, and for accurately predicting the effects of weapons on these structures. This includes the collection of relevant databases for training and testing the systems.Types of activitiesThe following table lists the types of activities which are eligible for this topic, and whether they are mandatory or optional (see Article 10(3) EDF Regulation):          Types of activities (art 10(3) EDF Regulation)      Eligible?                (a)      Activities that aim to create, underpin and improve knowledge, products and technologies, including disruptive technologies, which can achieve significant effects in the area of defence (generating knowledge)      Yes(mandatory)            (b)      Activities that aim to increase interoperability and resilience, including secured production and exchange of data, to master critical defence technologies, to strengthen the security of supply or to enable the effective exploitation of results for defence products and technologies (integrating knowledge)      Yes(mandatory)            (c)      Studies, such as feasibility studies to explore the feasibility of new or upgraded products, technologies, processes, services and solutions      Yes(optional)            (d)      Design of a defence product, tangible or intangible component or technology as well as the definition of the technical specifications on which such a design has been developed, including any partial test for risk reduction in an industrial or representative environment      Yes(optional)            (e)      System prototyping of a defence product, tangible or intangible component or technology      No            (f)      Testing of a defence product, tangible or intangible component or technology      No            (g)      Qualification of a defence product, tangible or intangible component or technology      No            (h)      Certification of a defence product, tangible or intangible component or technology      No            (i)      Development of technologies or assets increasing efficiency across the life cycle of defence products and technologies      No       Accordingly, the proposals must cover at least the following tasks as part of mandatory activities:Generating knowledge:   Research on automatic and semi-automatic modelling of structures from imagery and other relevant sources of information, as well as on effect prediction models, aiming at optimising the overall accuracy of effect predictions.    Integrating knowledge:   Collection and annotation of representative data enabling to train and test the systems.Integration of the system processing modules into demonstrators.     In addition, the proposals may also cover the following tasks:Generating knowledge:   Participation in objective and comparative evaluation campaigns or technological challenges, notably those that may be organised in the context of the EDF call topic EDF-2024-LS-RA-CHALLENGE-SPACE-MSIAO on Multi-source satellite image analysis;     The proposals should substantiate synergies and complementarities with foreseen, ongoing, or completed activities in the fields of automated structural modelling and effect prediction.Functional requirementsThe proposed product and technologies should meet the following functional requirements:Systems should take as input various sources of information such as satellite or aerial images (optical, IR, radar, SAR, LiDAR, etc.) and documentation if available, and estimate structural features, such as position, dimensions and composition in terms of materials of structures in specified areas. Ground and soil characteristics may also be estimated if relevant for effect prediction.The estimated structural models should be usable in effect prediction tools. They should enable users to estimate the degree of damage to targeted structures and their surroundings, as a function of the nature and size of the weapons used. They should also enable to estimate the potential levels of casualties depending on the nature of an attack and of the estimated human presence in a given area. Secondary effects such as window shattering should be taken into account.The models should lead to maximum accuracy prediction on representative databases. Reproducibility of the measurements should be ensured, by participating in existing technological challenges whenever relevant, or by organising test campaigns open to other actors if needed.The databases foreseen for training and testing the systems should be described in the proposals. These databases should be reusable beyond the project. The foreseen organisational and technical framework for such data sharing should be described in the proposals. In particular, the entity or entities in charge of the data production and distribution should be clearly identified in the proposals.Systems should allow non-expert users to evaluate effects of a certain threat over a specific target. They should also provide signatures of such targets, e.g., radar signatures. Systems should also be able to use expert user inputs in order to produce structural models in a semi-supervised manner. Demonstrators should include a user interface enabling these users to supervise the model production.Models and systems should be scalable and compatible with broader models supporting decision making beyond the prediction of attack effects. 
Expected Impact:The outcomes can not only have a positive impact on a wide range of military activities, but may also have a dual use potential. They should in particular contribute to:Enhanced decision-making for operational planning activities such as targeting activities, planning of indirect fires or aerial bombings over enemy positions in urban areas, while limiting the risks of collateral damages.Vulnerability assessment, protection, and improvement of own infrastructure and prediction of impacts on infrastructure and operations due to e.g., natural hazards such as seismic events and tsunamis. 


Conditions: 
1. Admissibility conditions: described in section 5 of the call document
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in section 6 of the call document &nbsp;
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in section 6 of the call document
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in section 7 of the call document
5. Evaluation and award:
Award criteria, scoring and thresholds: described in section 9 of the call document
Submission and evaluation processes: described section 8 of the call document and the Online Manual
Indicative timeline for evaluation and grant agreement: described in section 4 of the call document &nbsp;
6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in section 10 of the call document &nbsp;
 
Call documents:&nbsp;
Call document&nbsp;
Templates for proposals should be downloaded from the Submission System (available at the opening of the call), the links below are examples only:
-&nbsp;EDF Standard&nbsp;application&nbsp;form&nbsp;
-&nbsp;Detailed budget table (EDF RA)
-&nbsp;Participant information&nbsp;(including previous projects, if any)
-&nbsp;List of infrastructure, facilities, assets and resources
-&nbsp;Actual indirect cost methodology declarations&nbsp;(if actual indirect costs used)
-&nbsp;Ownership control declarations&nbsp;(including for associated partners and subcontractors involved in the action)
-&nbsp;PRS declaration&nbsp;(if the project requires access to Galileo PRS information)&nbsp;
&nbsp;
EDF General MGA v1.0&nbsp;&nbsp;
&nbsp;
Additional documents:&nbsp;
EDF Annual Work Programme 
EDF Regulation 2021/697&nbsp;
EU Financial Regulation 2018/1046&nbsp;
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment&nbsp;
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement&nbsp;
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual&nbsp;
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions&nbsp;
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
For help related to this&nbsp;call, please contact:&nbsp;DEFIS-EDF-PROPOSALS@ec.europa.eu
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; Submission of proposals.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash; Contact the IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
Online Manual&nbsp;&ndash; Step-by-step online guide through the Portal processes from proposal preparation and submission to reporting on your on-going project. Valid for all 2021-2027 programmes.

