<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl6-2024-climate-02-3","file_display_name":"Overcoming barriers and delivering innovative solutions to enable the green transition","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:In the context of the EU Green Deal and related policies, there is the need to speed up the green transition, including under the sectors covered by Cluster 6. Nevertheless, several socio-economic barriers impede the deployment of solutions aimed at facilitating such transition.Project results are expected to contribute to the following expected outcomes:overcoming barriers to the uptake of new knowledge and innovation for the green transition under the sectors covered by Cluster 6 and propose credible pathways towards addressing these barriers;improved adoption of tools, methods and options by actors along value chains as well as decision makers, including local and regional authorities, to overcome the identified barriers and support the deployment of innovative solutions that facilitate the green transition. 
Scope:Under this topic, proposals should seek to address new, upcoming or unforeseen challenges related to barriers towards the green transition and propose creative or disruptive solutions to overcome them that are not covered by the other topics of Horizon Europe Cluster 6 calls in Work Programmes 2021-2022 and 2023-2024.Proposals funded under this topic should:identify barriers to the uptake by end users of new knowledge and innovation for the green transition on aspects of water resilience, circular economy, biodiversity, zero pollution, and climate change;address factors (socio-economic, cultural, etc.) that differ across the EU and play a fundamental role in determining the acceptance of technological and social innovation solutions designed to foster the green transition;develop solutions to overcome identified barriers, including by taking advantage of technological and digital tools as well as innovative dissemination strategies, organisational models and educational activities. The involvement of actors as appropriate, based on the elements of the multi-actor approach, is encouraged. Adapted to the nature, scope and type of proposed projects, proposals should convincingly explain how they will plan and/or carry out demonstration, testing or validation of developed tools and options. Proposals should also delineate the plans to develop possible future uptake and upscaling at national and EU level for possible next steps after the research project.This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related innovation activities.


Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the specific topic of the Work Programme
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard evaluation form
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 9. Food, Bioeconomy, Natural Resources, Agriculture and Environment
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

