<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-ju-gh-edctp3-2024-mpox","file_display_name":"Mobilisation of Emergency funding for Mpox outbreak research response","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:This topic aims at supporting activities that contribute to answering the most pressing questions raised by public health responders to the Mpox Public Health Emergency (PHE), as part of the efforts to manage and prevent the spread of the current epidemic. Proposals should result in new knowledge to manage and prevent future outbreaks and should strengthen the capacities of at-risk countries to respond to epidemics.To that end, proposals submitted under this topic should aim at delivering results that are contributing to the following expected outcomes:Provide novel, critical and timely insights into the Mpox outbreak and/or potential avenues for its management or prevention, focusing on the most affected population, specifically children, pregnant women and immunosuppressed individuals.Be timely, with rapid activation, to enable early and valuable outcomes and results to be produced and/or to support access time-dependent resources.To contribute to the public health preparedness and response in the context of the ongoing Mpox epidemic. 
Scope:The Global Health EDCTP3 Work Programme 2024 [1] foresees funding to be mobilised in case of a Public Health Emergency (PHE). This mechanism allows rapid mobilisation of research funding with or without a call for proposals in exceptional and duly substantiated emergencies. Global Health EDCTP3 considers a situation as an emergency if it is unforeseen and presents a serious and immediate risk to human health.Following the Mpox outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), first reported in 2023, the DRC Government, Africa CDC, World Health Organization (WHO) and partners have been closely monitoring it. From 1 January through 12 November 2023, a total of 12 569 suspected Mpox cases, including 581 suspected Mpox deaths (case fatality ratio: 4.6%), had been reported in 156 health zones from 22 out of 26 (85%) provinces of the DRC [2]. In 2024, and as of 29 March, 4 488 cases have been reported, of which 319 have been confirmed. A total of 279 deaths have been reported in the country in 2024 (CFR: 6.7%)[3].On 13 April 2024, a High-Level Emergency Regional Meeting [4] was held in Kinshasa, to discuss the ongoing epidemic of Mpox in DRC and the potential risk of transmission to neighbouring countries and beyond. On the same day, the Ministry of Health (MoH) of DRC assessed the situation and considered the ongoing outbreak as a Public Health Emergency which requires a rapid and efficacious response. Aligning with this statement, the High-Level Meeting ended with a Communiqué (dated 13 April 2024) whereby twelve Ministers of Health and international partners called for a coordinated response to the outbreak and for the establishment of an Africa Taskforce for Mpox Coordination among Member States affected and at-risk of Mpox. These documents include a call to accelerate research and regulatory processes to enable access to vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics for affected populations including children.In the light of rising numbers of cases being reported in the DRC and the high public health risk, the Global Health EDCTP3 is activating the emergency funding mechanism to support research and innovation projects and activities as part of the Joint Undertaking’s response to the emergency.The Global Health EDCTP3 invites proposals for Research &amp; Innovation Actions (RIA) to support research activities in DRC and neighbouring or affected countries, to manage and/or prevent the spread of the current Mpox outbreak.Proposals should address one or more of the following areas:  Vaccines research and development:  Trials should focus on both pre-exposure prophylaxis and post-exposure prophylaxis. Clinical trials for therapeutics: Proposals should include trials on therapeutic products in the context of the Monitored Emergency Use of Unregistered Interventions (MEURI), such as tecovirimat (approved by the European Medicines Agency for use in the European Union) and other promising therapeutic candidates. Research on pain management strategies should integrated in the proposed R&amp;D efforts.  Surveillance strategies, evaluation of rapid diagnostics and epidemiological studies:  Proposals should provide data on epidemiological characteristics such as geographical spread, viral genotype, and pathogenicity, clinical information on host susceptibility and host immune responses. This work is foreseen to use and evaluate available diagnostic tools to ensure improved surveillance.  Moreover, proposals should ensure:Focus on the most affected population, specifically children, pregnant women and immunosuppressed individuals.Alignment with the national priorities of the DRC and neighbouring countries as well as the African Taskforce for Mpox Coordination.Partnership with researchers and public health institutions in DRC and neighbouring countries.Strengthening of national and local research capacity.Coordination and collaboration with other research and/or humanitarian activities operational in the countries affected.Alignment with the Africa CDC Task Force recommendations for rapid activation of R&amp;D activities to control the outbreak.Compliance with International Council on Harmonisation – Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP), regulatory and ethical standards.Commitment to open access and data sharing principles, including appropriate data management and governance plans.Demonstrate alignment/synergy with DRC national government health service delivery policy and plans, where appropriate. Proposals should provide novel, critical and timely insights into the Mpox outbreak and/or potential avenues for its management or prevention, focusing on the most affected population, specifically children, pregnant women and immunosuppressed individuals.Proposals must be timely, with rapid activation, to enable early and valuable outcomes to be established and/or to access time-dependent resources.Proposals funded under this mechanism must share the relevant generated data within 30 days after generation with all parties that need and can use the findings to address the PHE.[1] https://globalhealth-edctp3.eu/resources/work-programme-2024[2] https://www.who.int/emergencies/disease-outbreak-news/item/2023-DON493[3] https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/news-events/outbreak-mpox-caused-monkeypox-virus-clade-i-democratic-republic-congo[4] https://www.afro.who.int/media-centre/statements-commentaries/united-fight-against-mpox-africa


Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
Replacing relevant sections in General Annex B to the Horizon Europe work programmes on eligibility (“Entities eligible for funding”)To become a beneficiary, legal entities must be eligible for funding.To be eligible for funding, applicants must be established in one of the following countries:The Member States of the European Union, including their outermost regions: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden;The Overseas Countries and Territories (OCTs) linked to the Member States: Aruba (NL), Bonaire (NL), Curação (NL), French Polynesia (FR), French Southern and Antarctic Territories (FR), Greenland (DK), New Caledonia (FR), Saba (NL), Saint Barthélemy (FR), Sint Eustatius (NL), Sint Maarten (NL), St. Pierre and Miquelon (FR), Wallis and Futuna Islands (FR);Countries associated to Horizon Europe [1]: Albania, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Faroe Islands, Georgia, Iceland, Israel, Kosovo [2], Moldova, Montenegro, New Zealand (associated to Pillar II 'Global Challenges and European Industrial Competitiveness' as from the Work Programmes 2023 onwards, including for the institutionalised European partnerships), North Macedonia, Norway, Serbia, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom. Until association agreements start producing legal effects either through provisional application or their entry into force, transitional arrangements apply. The transitional arrangements apply, at the time of the adoption of this Work Programme, with regard to the following countries and legal entities established in these countries, with which association negotiations are being processed or where association is imminent):1. Canada2. MoroccoThe following countries which are constituent states of the EDCTP Association [3]: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Guinea-Conakry, Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe. Consortium compositionUnless otherwise provided for in the specific call conditions, for all actions, due to the policy objectives of the Global Health EDCTP3 JU, legal entities forming a consortium are eligible to participate in actions under the programme provided that the consortium includes:At least three legal entities independent from each other and established in different countries, where legal entities are eligible to receive funding;At least one independent legal entity established in a Member State or an associated country; andAt least one independent legal entity established in a sub-Saharan African (SSA) country that is a member of the EDCTP Association. This condition applies to both Research and Innovation Actions (RIA) and Coordination and Support Actions (CSA).Specific cases:Affiliated entities — Affiliated entities (i.e. entities with a legal or capital link to a beneficiary[4] which participate in the action with similar rights and obligations to the beneficiaries, but which do not sign the grant agreement and therefore do not become beneficiaries themselves) are allowed, if they are eligible for participation and funding.Associated partners — Entities not eligible for funding (and therefore not able to participate as beneficiaries) may participate as associated partners, unless specified otherwise in the specific call conditions.International organisations – International European research organisations are eligible to receive funding. Other international organisations are not eligible to receive funding unless their participation is considered essential for implementing the action by the granting authority. International organisations with headquarters in a Member State or associated country are eligible to receive funding when provided for in the specific call conditions.Specific rules regarding legal entities that may be the coordinator of an indirect actionIn accordance with Article 110(2) of the Council Regulation 2021/2085 establishing the Joint Undertakings under Horizon Europe[5], where entities established in a third country without an agreement to protect the financial interests of the Union participate with funding in an indirect action, the financial coordinator of the indirect action must be established in a Member State or associated country. Of the SSA countries members of the EDCTP Association, only South Africa concluded such an agreement at the moment.[6]Scientific project leaderIf the coordinator is not established in a country in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), the designation of a scientific project leader established in a SSA country member of the EDCTP Association with the roles as described below is mandatory. A work package on ‘scientific project leadership’ must be included in the proposals and budget needs to be provided for this activity.The scientific project leader oversees the project scientific governance and leadership. For this purpose, proposals must include a work package where the details of scientific project leadership are laid down. The scientific project leader should indicatively perform the following tasks:During the call for proposals and selection process, coordinate meetings on and drafting of the full project proposal;Work with the coordinator and other beneficiaries on the drafting and negotiation of the consortium agreement and other legal agreements among the beneficiaries;Act as the key contact point for the Global Health EDCTP3 JU regarding all scientific action governance issues, steer and provide oversight in the development of the scientific actions, without prejudice to the tasks entrusted directly to the coordinator as per the Model Grant Agreement;Support and collaborate with the coordinator on its monitoring activities and the adoption of appropriate internal measures, to ensure that beneficiaries are fulfilling their obligations regarding budget, timeline, deliverables, and scientific quality;Review the action’s deliverables and reports before their submission by the coordinator;Lead the work packages(s) related to the tasks of scientific project leadership. Annex 1 to the grant agreement and the consortium agreement should address the relationship of the scientific project leader with the coordinator regarding their respective tasks, for example sharing of the information received from or sent to the Global Health EDCTP3 JU on all issues of interest for the proper scientific management of the action.[1] The list is correct at the time of adoption of this work programme. Please see the Horizon Europe List of Participating Countries on the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal for up-to-date information on the current list and on the position for Associated Countries.https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/docs/2021-2027/common/guidance/list-3rd-country-participation_horizon-euratom_en.pdf[2] This designation is without prejudice to positions on status and is in line with UNSCR 1244/1999 and the ICJ Opinion on the Kosovo declaration of independence.[3] The list is correct at the time of adoption of this work programme. For an update, please check the EDCTP Association website www.edctp.org[4] See Article 187 EU Financial Regulation 2018/1046.[5] Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085 of 19 November 2021 establishing the Joint Undertakings under Horizon Europe and repealing Regulations (EC) No 219/2007, (EU) No 557/2014, (EU) No 558/2014, (EU) No 559/2014, (EU) No 560/2014, (EU) No 561/2014 and (EU) No 642/2014. OJ L 427, 30.11.2021, p. 17–119;https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2021/2085[6] https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/strategy/strategy-2020-2024/europe-world/international-cooperation/south-africa_en
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    

Replacing the scores and weighting section in General Annex D to the Horizon Europe work programmes as regards Research and Innovation Actions (RIA) second stage of two-stage evaluations.Scores and weightingEvaluation scores will be awarded for the criteria, and not for the different aspects listed in the table. For full applications, each criterion will be scored out of 5. The threshold for individual criteria 1 (Excellence) and 2 (Impact) will be 4 and for criteria 3 (Quality and efficiency of the implementation) will be 3. The overall threshold, applying to the sum of the three individual scores, will be 12.Proposals that pass the individual threshold and the overall threshold will be considered for funding, within the limits of the available call budget. Other proposals will be rejected.Nota bene, for the first stage of the two-stage evaluation, the scores and weighting as indicated in Annex D of the General Annexes of the Horizon Europe work programme 2023/2024 apply. Furthermore, the scores and weighting for Coordination and Support Actions apply.

    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    

The following derogation to the evaluation procedure described in General Annexes F applies to open invitations to submit applications: In order to ensure a balanced portfolio covering responses to different aspects of the public health emergency, grants will be awarded to applications not only in order of ranking, but also to those projects that enhance the quality of the project portfolio through synergies between projects and avoidance of overlaps, provided that the applications attain all thresholds.

    
    Indicative timeline:&nbsp;This Call will be open for a maximum period of 2 weeks.
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Also in line with Article 114 of the Council Regulation 2021/2085, participants will be subject to the following additional exploitation obligations:1. Participants must – up to four years after the end of the action (see Data Sheet, Point 1) – use their best efforts to ensure that resulting health technologies and services will be broadly available and accessible, as soon as possible and at fair and reasonable conditions.In this respect, if, despite a participants’ best efforts, the results are not exploited within one year after the end of the action, participants must (unless otherwise agreed in writing with the granting authority) use the Horizon Results Platform to find interested parties to exploit the results.2. In case the participants cannot fulfil the preceding obligation, the participants must (if requested by the granting authority) grant non-exclusive licences - under fair and reasonable conditions - to their results to legal entities that commit to rapidly and broadly exploiting the resulting health technologies and services and ensure that they are broadly available and accessible, as soon as possible and at fair and reasonable conditions.3. In case of transfer of the ownership or licensing of results, participants must pass on such additional exploitation obligations to the legal entities exploiting the results.4. For up to four years after the action (see Data Sheet, Point 1), the funding body must be informed every year about the status of the development of the product and any other exploitation of the results through an annual report that is due on each anniversary of the end of the grant agreement.
The action may also include justified derogations from the standard limits to financial support to third parties (maximum EUR 60 000 unless justified). Where applicable, the relevant grant agreement options will be applied.
Implementing the provision on affordable access as defined in Article 114 of the Council Regulation 2021/2085, grants that implement clinical studies awarded under this topic will have to submit the following deliverables:1. Stewardship planParticipants must prepare stewardship plans outlining how to achieve the optimal use of an intervention, including, for example, how to avoid irrational use, overuse or abuse of health technologies (e.g. antimicrobials). A draft plan must be submitted after half the duration of the project has elapsed and a final plan must be submitted with the final report. 2. Global access planWith the final report, participants must submit an appropriate and proportionate global access plan that covers registration targets, plans to meet demand, flexible approaches to IP and other strategies that reflect ability to pay and ensure that economic barriers to access are low.
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
Call-specific instructions
Detailed budget table (HE LS)
Information on financial support to third parties (HE)
Information on clinical studies (HE)
&nbsp;
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 4. Health
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

