<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-miss-2024-neb-01-02","file_display_name":"New governance models for the co-design and co-construction of public spaces in neighbourhoods by communities","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes:Improved understanding by public authorities of how innovative engagement approaches can foster openness, social cohesion, trust and acceptance within communities and promote the inclusion of marginalised communities and/or vulnerable groups.Tested and validated engagement approach(es) are made available to public authorities to involve citizens in the co-design and co-development of public spaces in their neighbourhoods.Better public acceptance of change thanks to the meaningful and continuous engagement of all relevant end-users and local communities in the design, construction and maintenance of public spaces.Improved cooperation mechanisms between citizens and project developers. 
Scope:Addressing societal challenges such as climate change, energy poverty, the pandemic, ageing population or the increased societal divide will require to rethink the way we develop and live in our neighbourhoods. Current ways of planning, designing and building often overlook the importance of continuously engaging end-users or local communities. Yet, incorporating community knowledge and efforts can lead to more liveable neighbourhoods that reflect local needs and contexts and empower current and future residents. Moreover, the way public spaces are designed can have an important impact on the way people interact with each other, the kind of activities that take place in such spaces, and the trust of people towards their local authority and thus democracy. Therefore, it is key to empower people to take an active role in co-designing those spaces. This can lead to greater acceptance, enhanced sense of belonging, social trust and an increased willingness to further engage with the community, and thus promote a global positive social impact on people’s well-being and the neighbourhood as a whole.Building on work carried out in previous projects, proposals will study, refine and validate existing engagement approaches, that allow residents, businesses, cultural organisations and local governments to co-design and co-create public spaces in neighbourhoods. For instance, this should include how to involve citizens in the development and maintenance of public spaces and neighbourhoods; or flexible designs allowing communities to re-create or re-furbish spaces according to evolving needs. Special attention should be paid to involve diverse groups and citizens at risk of exclusion.Proposals are expected to address all of the following:Study and refine engagement model(s) and methodology(ies) that enables the meaningful participation of concerned stakeholders and citizens in the co-design, refurbishment and development of public spaces in their neighbourhoods. The model and methodology should:   Be inclusive and accessible, and ensure that citizens are empowered to contribute to the decision-making processes;Use innovative digital tools, platforms and technologies such as augmented reality or virtual reality, to facilitate virtual and physical collaboration between citizens, designers, urban planners, policymakers and the construction ecosystem to enhance citizen engagement in the planning, design and construction process while ensuring that digital solutions remain inclusive and accessible, and assessing their added value compared to ‘traditional’ in-person methods.    Demonstrate that the chosen engagement approach(es) (e.g. model, methodology, digital tools) can effectively and measurably foster openness, social cohesion, trust and acceptance within communities as well as promote the inclusion of marginalised communities and/or vulnerable groups in public space redevelopment projects. Proposals should demonstrate this in at least three neighbourhoods with differing local environmental, social and economic conditions, and each one located in a different Member State or Associated Country.Monitor and evaluate all stages of the chosen engagement approach(es), using an appropriate methodology, and measure the success of projects in fostering openness, social cohesion, acceptance within communities as well as the inclusion of marginalised communities and vulnerable groups.Assess how the above may impact future project design and decision-making in the construction of neighbourhoods as well as in the construction ecosystem. Cross-sectoral and cross-disciplinary collaboration between architects, engineers, designers, creative sectors, natural and social scientists, urban planners, environmentalists, and by extension the broader cultural and creative sector is encouraged. The involvement of relevant stakeholders such as local small organizations, communities' representatives, end-users, and local authorities in the design and implementation of the project is also encouraged.Actions are strongly recommended to collaborate with and build on the work of relevant research[1]. Actions are also encouraged to take into account and contribute with their results to future work on the impact of public spaces on social relations in neighbourhood communities.Projects shall share their intermediate and final results and findings with the 'New European Bauhaus hub for results and impacts' that will be established[2]. It will also cooperate, interact and take part in its activities when relevant to support the achievement of its objectives. Resources should be dedicated to engage with this Coordination and Support Action.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7-8 by the end of the project – see General Annex B. Activities may start at any TRL.
[1]Such as: HORIZON-CL2-2022-DEMOCRACY-01-01: Artificial intelligence, big data and democracy; HORIZON-CL2-2022-DEMOCRACY-01-02: The future of democracy and civic participation; HORIZON-CL6-2021-GOVERNANCE-01-09: Revitalisation of European local communities with innovative bio-based business models and social innovation; HORIZON-CL6-2021-GOVERNANCE-01-07: Regional governance models in the bioeconomy; HORIZON-CL5-2023-D4-02-05: Supporting the creation of an accessible and inclusive built environment; HORIZON-CL5-2021-D4-02-03: Strengthening European coordination and exchange for innovation uptake towards sustainability, quality, circularity and social inclusion in the built environment as a contribution to the New European Bauhaus; HORIZON-CL4-2021-RESILIENCE-02-32: Social and affordable housing district demonstrator; HORIZON-CL4-2023-HUMAN-01-82: Art-driven digital innovation: Towards human compatible and ecologically conscious technology; HORIZON-MISS-2021-CIT-01-02: Collaborative local governance models to accelerate the emblematic transformation of urban environment and contribute to the New European Bauhaus initiative and the objectives of the European Green Deal; HORIZON-MISS-2021-CIT-02-01: Urban planning and design for just, sustainable, resilient and climate-neutral cities by 2030; HORIZON-MISS-2021-NEB-01-01 Support the deployment of lighthouse demonstrators for the New European Bauhaus initiative in the context of Horizon Europe missions; HORIZON-MISS-2021-CLIMA-02-05: Local engagement of citizens in the co-creation of societal transformational change for climate resilience It should also collaborate with ongoing related projects such as HORIZON-CL5-2024-D4-02-05: Digital solutions to foster participative design, planning and management of buildings, neighbourhoods and urban districts.[2]See HORIZ-MISS-2024-NEB-01-03

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
&nbsp;
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 12. Missions
 
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

