<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-ju-cbe-2024-ia-01","file_display_name":"Bio-based materials and products for biodegradable in-soil applications","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:In line with the objectives of the Circular Economy[1] and Zero Pollution Action Plan[2], and the EU Plastics Strategy[3] and the recommendation in the Communication – EU policy framework on bio-based, biodegradable and compostable plastics[4] the successful proposals will facilitate the deployment of sustainable bio-based biodegradable materials and products for applications in soil.Successful proposals will also contribute to the implementation of the EU Bioeconomy Strategy[5] and the updated EU Industrial Strategy[6]. Moreover, successful proposals will deliver significant contribution to the objectives of the R&amp;I Missions ‘A Soil Deal for Europe’, in particular objectives ‘Reduce soil pollution and enhance restoration’ and ‘Prevent erosion’, as well as Mission ‘Restore our Oceans and Waters by 2030’ in particular ‘Make the blue economy carbon-neutral and circular’ and ‘Prevent and eliminate pollution of our oceans, seas and waters’.Project results should contribute to the following expected outcomes:Availability of safe and sustainable by design bio-based solutions aiming at zero waste and zero pollution, with decreased environmental on soil, biodiversity and climate.Contribution to industrial competitiveness and resource independence of bio-based value chains in EU/EEA/EFTA countries and ACs.Improved circularity and resource efficiency via practical application of circular bioeconomy.Social acceptance of circular bio-based solutions and products.Innovative manufacturing processes to enable the safe biodegradation of bio-based materials and products according with the environmental conditions and time frame for specific applications. 
Scope:Some plastics applications such as those in agriculture, infrastructure or landscaping are intended to be used in the open environment. Plastic mulch films, for example, are used extensively within a range of arable and horticultural cropping settings to prevent evaporation of water from the soil, avoid fluctuations in soil temperature, protect the crops and increase their yield. Geotextiles and geomembranes find widespread application in landscaping, construction and roadworks to stabilise and improve mechanical properties of soil, collect and transport groundwater and prevent contamination between different kinds of soil. Additional plastics applications in agriculture include greenhouses, pheromones dispensers, clips, pots, etc. The improper or unintentional disposal of plastic products and their degradation may result in soil pollution and environmental contamination. While in some cases recovery from the environment for reuse or recycling would be feasible, for some applications it is either impossible or disproportionally expensive and biodegradable (in soil) alternatives may be preferable, provided that the products are able to meet technical performance requirements throughout their use.Proposals under this topic should:Demonstrate and deploy innovative production processes for SSbD bio-based products for biodegradable[7] -in- soil applications, addressing the problem of (micro)plastics release in soil and their further dispersion in runoff water. This topic focuses on products used in soil, for example mulch films, tarpaulins, geonets, geotextiles, geomembranes, etc. and plastics applications in agriculture, for example, greenhouses, pheromones dispensers, clips, pots etc; select one or more product categories, providing a justification of the selection based on the relevance of products in the actual market and/or on environmental considerations (e.g., the threats posed by the conventional non-biodegradable solutions for the same applications). The topic does not cover marine and aquatic applications as a main focus. However, spill over of the developed product streams towards other replication sectors (including marine/aquatic) can be considered, in order to widen market applications.Design the products for biodegradation in soil according to the environmental conditions and application timeframe, while ensuring technical performances meeting market requirements throughout the useful life of the product. Moreover, the topic also addresses eco-design and testing of reusability and/or recyclability depending on the final application(s) and use conditions.Demonstrate safe biodegradability of bio-based products designed for specific applications in open environments (soil) under ranges of physical/chemical environmental conditions, including extreme conditions (e.g., temperature, pH) where applicable. Safe biodegradability entails avoiding eco-toxicity, microplastic dispersion and any environmental impacts - from bio-based products including their additives and other components- on natural ecosystems and their services, including on the soil fertility, during and after degradation. All these aspects should be monitored and assessed, also in the phase of dispersion in runoff water. Perform validation trials of the developed bio-based products with the involvement of end users (for example, in case of applications for agriculture are selected, primary sector should be involved).Develop a proposal for appropriate labelling of products when applicable and provide clear instructions on their use and on disposal options after use. This task should include the consultation of targeted stakeholders, e.g., end users. Training of end users should also be envisaged.Contribute with recommendations related to standards for biodegradability in soil.Include a task for projects funded under this topic to collaborate and align the proposals for appropriate labelling, and the recommendations related to standards. Include a task to integrate assessment of the demonstrated bio-based products based on the safe and sustainable by design (SSbD) framework, developed by the European Commission, for assessing the safety and sustainability of chemicals and materials.[8] Under this context, projects are expected to contribute with and develop recommendations that can advance further the application of the SSbD framework.[9] Proposals should seek for links and complementarities and avoid overlaps with past, ongoing and upcoming EU funded projects, including those funded under H2020, HEU[10] , the BBI JU and CBE JU [11], and the Missions ‘A Soil Deal for Europe’ and ’Restore our oceans and water’. Collaboration among projects from the same topic are encouraged.Proposals should also describe their contribution to the Specific CBE JU requirements, presented in section 2.2.3.1 of the CBE JU Annual Work Programme 2024[12].
[1]Brussels, 11.3.2020 COM(2020) 98 final[2]Brussels, 12.05.2021, COM(2021) 400 final[3]https://environment.ec.europa.eu/strategy/plastics-strategy_en[4]https://environment.ec.europa.eu/publications/communication-eu-policy-framework-biobased-biodegradable-and-compostable-plastics_en.[5]Updated Bioeconomy Strategy 2018. [6]Brussels, 5.5.2021 COM(2021) 350 final.[7]For biodegradability in soil refer to existing standards, when applicable, e.g., EN 17033:2018 for biodegradable mulch films. Also, taking into account the progress of the upcoming revision of the Regulation on fertilising product.[8]See document defining the framework and criteria: Safe and sustainable by design.[9]More specifically, provide thresholds that can support the criteria definition and improvements for the assessment SSbD methodologies, including any specificities related with bio-based plastics. Recommendations should also include identification of data gaps, especially safety, environmental, but also socio-economic factors, as well as priorities for data collection.[10]Such as FIRST2RUN (H2020-BBI-JTI-2014), GRACE (H2020-BBI-JTI-2016), UNLOCK (H2020-BBI-JTI-2020),REBIOLUTION (HORIZON-CL6-2022-CIRCBIO-02-two-stage), MINAGRIS (H2020-SFS-2020-2), PAPILLON (H2020-SFS-2020-2), ELLIPSE (HORIZON-JU-CBE-2022).[11]For example, ‘HORIZON-JU-CBE-2023-R-05 Pre-normative research to develop standards for biodegradability of bio-based products in controlled and in open environments’[12]https://www.cbe.europa.eu/reference-documents

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions:&nbsp;described in section 2.2.3 Calls for proposals in the CBE JU Annual Work Programme 2024
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
CBE JU Call for proposals 2024
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
Call-specific instructions
CBE JU Call for proposals 2024
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

