<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl6-2024-governance-02-01","file_display_name":"European Partnership of Agriculture of Data","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:This partnership aims to enhance climate, environmental and socio-economic sustainability, and productivity of agriculture and to strengthen policy monitoring and evaluation capacities through exploiting the potential of Earth and environmental observation and other data, in combination with innovative data technologies. The partnership’s activities (parts of which will be carried out through financial contributions to third parties) are all together expected to contribute to all the following outcomes:Increased environmental, climate and socio-economical sustainability performance of the agriculture sector;Strengthened capacities to evaluate the effectiveness of policies (with reference to agriculture, environmental- and market-related policies and the combined potential effects of them);Increased sharing and harmonisation of data across countries and different actors (e.g. scientists, policymakers, practitioners, businesses, farmers, and other end users) based to the extent possible on FAIR[1]data principles; the exploitation of synergies through better integration of environmental, space and in-situ observations within Europe and the consideration of the needs and capacities of different actors should be guiding principles;Accelerating the delivery of more and better data-based solutions to the end users, in particular farmers, the public administration and policy makers;Enhanced contribution from the agriculture sector to the protection of the environment, including air quality, halting and, if possible, reversing biodiversity loss in Europe, as well as to the reduction of the emissions of air pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture;Enabling the sector and strengthen its capacity to adapt to climate change and to meet the objectives set by sustainability-related policies, considering e.g. risk analyses/indicators, such as environmental, technical, economic or social risks;Building the necessary structures, systems and concepts includes data infrastructures needed to develop innovative data-based solutions for both policy-making and the agriculture sector (including to strengthening the sector’s economic performance, and identify ways for the longer-term provision of acknowledged data-based solutions under consideration of possible synergies with other initiatives. 
Scope:Sustainable agricultural production and related policy monitoring needs can be supported through the provision of tailored data and data-based solutions; especially, through Earth observation[2] and in combination with other data and data technologies. At the same time, the agricultural sector at farm level produces data during digitalised farming practises, as also does the public administration. This data can be used to strengthen capacities of the agricultural sector in the public and the private domains. Integrating different sources of data, for instance Copernicus data[3], precision farming data, Integrated Administration Control System (IACS)-data and other reference data, would lead to even more relevant information in this context and provide scope for the development, delivery and uptake of agri-digitalisation products and services, such as decision-making support systems.The objectives, intervention logic, the governance structures, reasoning and basic guiding principles for the functioning of the partnership are set out in the “Partnership document”[4] and it is expected that the proposal follows the lines taken therein. Proposals should pool the necessary financial resources from the participating national (or regional) research programmes with a view to implementing joint calls for transnational proposals resulting in financial support to third parties (FSTP). The planning for these activities need to be based on the draft Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA),[5] which was elaborated by the core group representatives from of member states and associated countries.The partnership should coordinate research programmes and activities on digital and data technologies, Earth observation and other environmental and agricultural data between EU and its Member States and Associated Countries and trigger coherent and combined action.While private sector actors are not expected to be in the consortium forming this partnerships, non-governmental organisations representing different relevant stakeholder groups, and businesses, are expected to be considered in the implementation of the partnership through the governance structures or FSTP (see Partnership document).In the implementation phase, the partnership should elaborate strategies to sustain and scale up its activities and networks beyond the lifetime of the co-funded partnership.Moreover, the partnership should develop activities to achieve the named outcomes, which must include the following:Enable the exploitation of the potential of public and private data, including in the combination with data technologies (including AI) for the agricultural sector in the public and private domain;Provide the necessary technical elements related to e.g. digital and data infrastructure and interoperability for the development of data-based solutions and digital applications in a systemic and systematic way;Foster the sustainability and EU-wide up-scaling or replication of solutions, and applications close to deployment stage; Demonstrate how the expected result contribute to the European Green Deal objectives and the ambition of better policy-making[6]. The partnership activities should build on results of existing (ongoing or finished) initiatives and projects; in particular it should align to the ongoing work of the projects granted under call HORIZON-CL6-2022-GOVERNANCE-01-11. It is also expected to explore the potential for achieving synergies with relevant topics/ projects, partnerships and/ or missions particularly within Cluster 6 and Cluster 4 of the Horizon Europe programme, as well as with the digital Europe programme, the EU space programme and the common agricultural policy. Where applicable, the partnership should contribute to the development and or implementation of European initiatives and processes. This may include, e.g., informing processes and approaches in the field of policy monitoring and evaluation or identifying use options for Common European Data Spaces.The Commission envisages to include new actions in its future work programmes to provide continued support to the partnership for the duration of Horizon Europe. The current action is intended to provide funding in relation to the activities covered by the first two annual work programmes of the partnership.
Specific Topic Conditions:The total indicative budget for the duration of the partnership is EUR 90 million.
[1] https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/[2] Earth observation shall be understood as all sorts of geospatial data on the environmental state of the Earth system, from space-based as well as from in-situ sensors or instruments and any other non-space-based observations.[3] https://www.copernicus.eu/en[4] The partnership document has been elaborated following a participatory approach by a core group set up by EU Member States and HE Associated countries. https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2022-04/ec_rtd_he-partnership-agriculture-data.pdf[5]https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2023-08/AgData%20SRIA%20final_version.pdf[6] https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-making-process/planning-and-proposing-law/better-regulation-why-and-how_en

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
The following exceptions apply: subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication networks.
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may additionally be used).
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    

The evaluation committee will be composed partially by representatives of EU institutions.

    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
The funding rate is maximum 30% of the eligible costs.
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties (FSTP). The support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. As financial support provided by the participants to third parties is one of the primary activities of this action in order to be able to achieve its objectives, the 60 000 EUR threshold provided for in Article 204 (a) of the Financial Regulation No 2018/1046 does not apply. 
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the specific topic of the Work Programme
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE COFUND)
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE COFUND)
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
HE Unit MGA v1.0
Operating Grants MGA v1.0
Framework Partnership Agreement FPA v1.0
Call-specific instructions
Information on financial support to third parties (HE)
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 9. Food, Bioeconomy, Natural Resources, Agriculture and Environment
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

