<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl3-2024-infra-01-02","file_display_name":"Resilient and secure urban planning and new tools for EU territorial entities","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Projects’ results are expected to contribute to all of the following outcomes:Evaluation of the resilience of an urban and peri-urban environment, identification of weaknesses and recommendations for changes to organizational processes;Creation of new tools and cost-efficient security upgrades of urban infrastructures with possibilities of pooling and sharing of complex security systems, taking into account limited budgets of local authorities;Improved efficiency of the security forces and emergency services (police, firefighters, paramedics ...) for the benefit of the European citizens and residents;Promotion of best practices, creation of EU sovereign trusted decision support tool/solution and spreading of effective tools and capabilities across entities in different EU territories despite their size and location.  
Scope:European territories are developing into more connected and complex systems of different services and infrastructures empowered by technologies and growing digitisation. This change in urban areas in Europe, brings new opportunities but also new threats for the authorities and their relationship with the citizens and residents. It is therefore critical for the resilience of our urban areas and for their citizens’ wellbeing that those services are trusted and secure.The classical large-scale infrastructures have a long tradition of implementing the principles of Safety-by-design and Security-by-design when planning their assets. However, with more and more infrastructures on the local level becoming vulnerable, security research can support their protection with new approaches in ‘Security-by-design’[1]. In view of limited budgets of many local administrations, improved knowledge as well as innovative security upgrades and processes for existing urban infrastructures equipped with advanced connectivity technologies and cooperative systems could be explored.EU territories, despite their size and location, suffer from a lack of dedicated EU sovereign and trusted tools in order to enhance the coordination of local first responders and to improve security coverage, such as the preparation of operational staff, field intervention and predictive tools. Even though some complicated tools already exist, it is clear that there is no generic, cost effective and easy to use solutions for local authorities. Therefore, there is a need for creation of new tools that are designed in a simple manner and deployed in an effective way.Resilient and secure urban planning tools for the development of holistic approaches that network the different organizational levels, sensor and communication levels and data rooms are very pertinent. These tools should assess the resilience of urban and peri urban territories, identify weaknesses and recommend changes to organizational processes, sensors and communication infrastructure. The secure urban and rural living spaces, technical solutions, organizational levels, and data rooms must be more closely linked. There is a clear need for a development of tools for recovery strategies and proactive foresight for urban and peri urban environments. The tactical tools should include modelling of urban centres and rural areas, predictive tools, improved global situational awareness and day-to-day planning and crisis management (e.g., simulation, training).The proposals should include a high level of confidence in data management and sharing, provide solutions on cybersecurity issues and take on board new type of threats. The proposed solutions should suggest trusted shared architectures, trusted data collection, secure computation on the data and management processes, modelling capabilities, hypervisor supporting global situational awareness with open and trusted API’s, trusted data processing engines and, e.g., artificial intelligence tools. If the tools include processing of personal data, it should consider including a risk assessment or privacy impact of individuals and society.The testing and/or piloting of the tools and solutions developed in a real setting and the participation of one or more relevant local authorities is an asset; regardless, actions should foresee how they will facilitate the uptake, replication across setting and up-scaling of the capabilities - i.e. solutions, tools, processes et al. – to be developed by the project.This topic requires the effective contribution of SSH disciplines and the involvement of SSH experts, institutions as well as the inclusion of relevant SSH expertise, in order to produce meaningful and significant effects enhancing the societal impact of the related innovation activities.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to achieve TRL 6-8 by the end of the project – see General Annex B.
[1]See for example the handbook “Security by Design, Protection of public spaces from terrorist attacks” published by the European Commission, 2022: https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/bitstream/JRC131172/JRC131172_01.pdf

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
The following additional eligibility criteria apply:This topic requires the active involvement, as beneficiaries, of at least 2 local or regional government authorities from 2 at least different EU Member States or Associated Countries. For these participants, applicants must fill in the table “Information about security practitioners” in the application form with all the requested information, following the template provided in the submission IT tool.
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may additionally be used).
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2021-2027) – and in actions under the Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (2021-2025). [[This decision is available on the Funding and Tenders Portal, in the reference documents section for Horizon Europe, under ‘Simplified costs decisions’ or through this link: https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/docs/2021-2027/horizon/guidance/ls-decision_he_en.pdf]].
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
MGA

Lump Sum MGA v1.0
Call-specific instructions: 
 Template for Security &amp; eligibility conditions in Horizon Europe 

Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 6. Civil Security for Society
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

