<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-miss-2024-soil-01-04","file_display_name":"Systems to quantify nitrogen fluxes and uncertainties in European landscapes","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Activities under this topic will help to progress towards the objectives of the Mission ‘A Soil Deal for Europe’, in particular to its specific objective 4, “Reduce soil pollution and enhance restoration” and the operational objective 3, “Develop an integrated EU soil monitoring system and track progress towards soil health.” Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following outcomes:Enhanced understanding of the sources that contribute to spatio-temporal variability in soil biogeochemical processes and in particular how these sources influence total nitrogen fluxes across major climatic conditions throughout Europe and Associated Countries.Advanced comprehension of the mechanisms governing nitrogen translocation from soil, including gaseous emissions and subsurface leaching into groundwater.More effective monitoring, reporting and verification of greenhouse gas emissions and mitigation efforts and significant reduction in the uncertainty associated with the estimates of the full nitrogen budget at the European continental scale.Assessment of improved nitrogen management and conservation strategies.Improved land managers confidence in the implementation of advanced strategic nitrogen management practices that aim at reducing nitrogen losses from soil. 
Scope:Achieving climate neutrality by 2050 is a central goal of the European Green Deal. However, soil-derived gaseous nitrogen emissions from agriculture are often overlooked due to challenges in monitoring. A comprehensive assessment of both gaseous and non-gaseous nitrogen losses, including their geographical distribution and varying temporal resolution, is essential to inform effective greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation strategies and encourage the adoption of higher Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) tiers at the national level.Nitrogen losses are highly episodic, and the current temporal and spatial resolution of information regarding nitrogen dynamics across Europe is insufficient for a comprehensive estimation of the full nitrogen budget at a continental scale. The most commonly used methodology for measuring N-flux involves discontinuous flux measurements accompanied by standard gap-filling methods, which lead to large uncertainties and biased emission factors. Additionally, most existing observations focus on temperate zones and single flux exit pathways, neglecting the full spectrum of nitrogen forms, including both gaseous and non-gaseous forms across different climatic conditions. Data and observations are particularly lacking in the Mediterranean basin and some nitrogen transformation pathways are not well investigated. For example, widely used modelling approaches estimate the reduction of N2O to N2 by applying a conversion factor developed in laboratory conditions that do not comprehensively represent the vast array of soil types found in Europe. These ratios are subject to bias associated with the use of linear rates for nonlinear dynamics. To address these gaps, accurate information must be acquired, which will facilitate the development of effective management strategies that effectively minimise total nitrogen losses from soil. Additionally, this information will improve the parameterization and validation of models and increase the confidence of model predictions when scaled to the continental level. This will ultimately lead to a more refined and accurate estimation of nitrogen surplus, enrich existing dashboard estimates, and further support the evaluation of the effectiveness of management strategies, and guide future research and policy decisions related to mitigation efforts.Proposed activities should:Develop and employ advanced nitrogen monitoring and analytical techniques to generate high temporal resolution data on nitrogen fluxes and their drivers in various climatic conditions with particular focus on underrepresented pedo-climatic conditions.Implement a coordinated, holistic approach to develop and evaluate robust, practical management strategies that effectively minimise total nitrogen losses from soils while addressing potential trade-offs with other environmental concerns, such as water quality and soil carbon preservation.Utilise advanced modelling approaches to analyse the collected data, identify patterns and relationships between soil biogeochemical processes and nitrogen fluxes, and improve predictive tools that can be used to inform management strategies on a regional to continental scale.Implement and monitor pilot projects that test the effectiveness of the developed management strategies in diverse pedo-climatic zones, accounting for local environmental conditions, agricultural practices both in conventional and organic farming systems, and socio-economic factors that may influence adoption and outcomes.Synthesise the findings from field studies, modelling efforts, and pilot projects into a comprehensive estimation of the full nitrogen budget at the European continental scale contributing to the EU Soil Observatory through the provision of high-quality datasets for monitoring, reporting and verification.Development of scenarios on how climate change and land use change will affect nitrogen cycling through the soil-plant-atmosphere system. Proposals should demonstrate a route towards open access, longevity, sustainability and interoperability of knowledge and outputs through close collaboration with the Joint Research Centre’s EU Soil Observatory (EUSO) and the project Soil-WISE. In particular, to ensure inter-operability between existing databases and models and their integration in the EUSO.Proposals should include a dedicated task and appropriate resources to build on the work of other projects working on quantification of nitrogen fluxes in Europe that are being funded by other entities, including philanthropic organisations, particularly where there is geographical or thematic complementarity.In this topic, the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and innovation content is not a mandatory requirement.


Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the specific topic of the Work Programme
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form&nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard evaluation form&nbsp;&mdash;&nbsp;will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 12. Missions
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

