<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl5-2024-d3-02-03","file_display_name":"Development of smart concepts of integrated energy driven bio-refineries for co-production of advanced biofuels, bio-chemicals and biomaterials","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes: Expand the portfolio of cost-effective advanced biofuel production concepts through energy-driven biorefineries.Reduce cost, improve efficiency, support de-risking, to accelerate the availability of competitive and zero-waste advanced biofuel production concepts.Contribute to the Mission Innovation 2.0 mission of Integrated Biorefineries.Optimize resource efficiency, energy output and total products value from biomassReinforce the European scientific basis and European export potential for renewable fuel production solutions through international collaborations.  
Scope:Development of zero-waste and neutral or negative carbon emission energy-efficient biorefinery concepts for enabling the production of low-cost advanced biofuels through co-production of added value bio-based products and bioenergy. Conversion of biogenic wastes and residues as well as algae and aquatic biomass through chemical, biochemical, electrochemical, biological, thermochemical pathways or combinations of them in highly circular processes are in scope. The integration design is expected to include mass and energy flows, addressing the process heat and power needs by the use of co-produced bio-heat and bio-power, capturing and reusing biogenic effluent gases and sequestering biogenic emissions, for example in the form of biochar as soil amendment, such as to maximize overall material and energy efficiencies. An assessment of the feedstock cost supply at regional and local level and improvement of feedstock mobilisation patterns including via enabling technologies, such as digitalisation, should be included. Socioeconomic and environmental sustainability including circular economy, social, economic and environmental aspects are expected to be assessed on a life-cycle analysis basis. The advanced biofuels cost should aim to be reduced at parity with marketed biofuel equivalents or in the absence of these competitive to the fossil fuel equivalents. Technology validated in relevant environment is required. International cooperation with Mission Innovation countries is expected. Proposals should provide information and assessment about the economic feasibility and the potential of scaling-up the technology at commercial scale as appropriate.Synergies are possible with topic HORIZON-CL6-2023-ZEROPOLLUTION: Innovative technologies for zero pollution, zero-waste biorefineries (RIA) and respective cooperation activities are encouraged.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see General Annex B.


Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may additionally be used).
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 8. Climate, Energy and Mobility
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

