<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl5-2024-d6-01-07","file_display_name":"Scaling up logistics innovations supporting freight transport decarbonisation in an affordable way","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Projects are expected to contribute to all of the following outcomes:Reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 55%[1] by 2030 in the project networks, without reducing the overall performance of the logistics supply chain and taking account of all costs and externalities.Gains in terms of operational efficiency and environmental impact from the implementation of the Physical Internet[2] are clearly identified, demonstrated and measured.Logistics concepts speeding up freight decarbonisation and adoption of zero emissions vehicles/vessels and multimodality are developed.  
Scope:Building on previously funded projects and ongoing activities (e.g. Connecting Europe Facility, Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe projects), ensuring compliance with the data sharing framework pursued by the Digital Transport and Logistics Forum (DTLF), and taking into account the development of the common European mobility data space, proposals will pilot, demonstrate and scale up systemic collaborative solutions regarding logistics nodes, multimodal logistics networks connectivity, business and governance models. The focus will be on both digital and physical interoperability as well as on the adoption of zero-emission vehicles/vessels.Proposals will have to research and demonstrate in a structured and systemic way all of the following points:Demonstrate at least 10 working open standard processes, procedures and services across several logistics nodes providing seamless access to users. Processes, procedures, and services are expected to have an open access definition and scalability aspects need to be addressed.Develop and demonstrate further compatibility and interoperability of the full range of standardised multimodal transport units (from containers to boxes), also across transport modes.To achieve scalable multimodal logistics networks connectivity, demonstrate models and processes, supported by Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, etc., which can increase utilisation of assets and resources in actual logistics service providers’ networks dynamically. These models should also consider how to increase the adoption of automated and zero-emission vehicles/vessels and the use of rail and inland waterways through multimodal solutions.Demonstrate tools, technologies and processes to achieve different types of flows compatibility (e.g. through shared standard boxes) and synchro-modal solutions over the logistics service providers’ networks, involving shippers and retailers to that purpose.Demonstrate the benefit (e.g. GHG reductions vs increased operational costs) of decentralised inventory positions in the pooled logistics network allowing low speed multimodal transport for (re-)positioning stock levels and answering short term lead times with closer to consumer inventory positions (e.g. full visibility of inventory positions in retail networks extended to suppliers and logistics service providers).Test and demonstrate sound business and governance models and rules (including organisational change requirements) for resource-sharing across logistics networks, to ensure operational efficiency of freight movements irrespective of mode, nodal operations and freight characteristics.Test and demonstrate the functionalities and relevance of the data sharing framework, serving for optimisation of the logistic system, including through the establishment of an appropriate semantic model and its components, such as for instance Digital Twins with specific algorithms allowing for predictive planning of logistic related events. Synergies for rail will need to be sought with the EU-Rail Programme projects implementing the Transversal Topic on Digital enablers and Flagship Area 5[3].Develop and demonstrate scalability of the proposed solutions providing open access mechanisms and low thresholds to the system of logistics networks. Consider realising visualisation and simulation models and tools to show the practical use of collaborative models for the various types of stakeholders and the potential benefits based on actual cases. Develop specific actions to encourage, facilitate and ensure the access of SMEs and smaller players.Measure and demonstrate the benefits in terms of use of resources, affordability of proposed solutions, throughput capacity and environmental impact of the scaled up horizontal collaboration among logistics networks (system of logistics networks).  If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries have to describe if and how the use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS are incorporated in the proposed solutions. In addition, if the activities proposed involve the use and/or development of AI-based systems and/or techniques, the technical and social robustness of the proposed systems is to be described in the proposal.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to achieve TRL 7 by the end of the project – see General Annex B.
[1] In line with the 2030 Climate Target Plan the baseline for the greenhouse gas emissions reduction is at least 55% below 1990 levels.[2] ”The Roadmap to the Physical Internet” was developed in the frame of the EU-funded project SENSE, ref. http://www.etp-logistics.eu/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Roadmap-to-Physical-Intenet-Executive-Version_Final.pdf[3] See EU-Rail Multi Annual Work programme at https://shift2rail.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/EURAIL_MAWP_final.pdf

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may additionally be used).
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the specific topic of the Work Programme
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard application form (HE RIA IA Stage 1)
&nbsp;
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
&nbsp;
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
HE Unit MGA v1.0
&nbsp;
Call-specific instructions
Detailed budget table (HE LS)
Information on financial support to third parties (HE)
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 8. Climate, Energy and Mobility
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

