<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-msca-2024-ncp-01-01","file_display_name":"Trans-national cooperation among Marie Skłodowska-Curie National Contact Points (NCP) 2024","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Projects are expected to contribute to the following outcomes:An improved and professionalised NCP service across Europe, thereby helping simplify access to Horizon Europe calls, lowering the entry barriers for newcomers, and raising the average quality of proposals submitted;​Harmonised and improved trans-national cooperation between NCPs;More consistent level of NCP support services across Europe and beyond, notably in widening countries;Increased participation of third-country NCPs in the activities of the action. 
Scope:The objective is to facilitate the trans-national co-operation between National Contact Points (NCPs) for the MSCA, including those established in Third Countries, with a view to identifying and sharing good practices and raising the general standard of support to applicants, taking into account the diversity of actors and experiences.Support will be given to a consortium of formally nominated MSCA NCPs. The activities will be tailor-made to the needs and priorities of the NCPs concerned and may include benchmarking, joint workshops, enhanced cross-border brokerage events, training sessions linked to the MSCA and wider R&amp;I priorities and tools, twinning and mentoring schemes. Special attention will be given to enhancing the competence of MSCA NCPs, including helping newcomers and less experienced NCPs to rapidly acquire the know-how accumulated by their peers. Cooperation with other EU networks such as Euraxess Worldwide, Enterprise Europe Network, COST, will be encouraged to increase the visibility to potential beneficiaries, especially in the non-academic sector.Addressing the R&amp;I gapThere still is a research and innovation gap across Europe and discrepancies remain between European countries in their capacity to attract funding and researchers. This gap is observed in the MSCA as well, and specific measures to support the NCPs in “widening countries,” such as training and mentorship schemes, should be organised to stimulate more high-quality applications with beneficiaries in these countries and increase their success rate in MSCA.Attract researchers from third countriesThe MSCA are the main EU instrument to attract researchers from Third Countries to Europe. Specific measures to encourage Third-Country NCPs to create contacts and participate in the activities of the project (e.g. training, twinning, mentoring, and other capacity building and networking activities) should be foreseen.The focus throughout should be on issues specific to the MSCA and should not duplicate actions foreseen in the NCP network under “Widening participation and strengthening the European Research Area”.The consortium should have a good representation of experienced and less experienced NCPs and include NCPs from widening countries.Submission of a single proposal is encouraged. NCPs choosing not to participate as a member of the consortium are nevertheless invited and encouraged to participate in the project activities (e.g. workshops).The expected duration of the action will be 36 months.


Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
The following additional eligibility criteria apply: Participants other than associated partners must be Horizon Europe national support structures (e.g. NCP) responsible for MSCA and officially nominated to the Commission, from a Member State or Associated Country.Only if and for as long as Horizon Europe structures have not been officially nominated when the call opens, will national support structures responsible for MSCA nominated for Horizon 2020 be eligible.
Legal entities established in non-associated third countries may exceptionally participate in this Coordination and support action in a capacity other than as an associated partner.
Due to the scope of this topic, legal entities established in non-associated third countries are exceptionally eligible for Union funding.
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    

The evaluation committee will be composed partially or fully by representatives of EU institutions.
The granting authority can fund a maximum of one project.

    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the MSCA part of the Work Programme

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE CSA)
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE CSA)
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 2. Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

&nbsp;

