<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-msca-2025-citizens-01-01","file_display_name":"European Researchers' Night and Researchers at Schools 2026-2027","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Project results are expected to contribute to the following outcomes:For researchersEnhanced opportunities to interact with citizens and local, regional and national authorities;Improved communication skills and competences to interact with a non-research audience, notably with pupils and students. For organisationsIncreased reputation and visibility of participating organisations in terms of hosting excellence research projects towards the general public and possible future students;Researchers’ work made more tangible, concrete, accessible, and thus opening research and science to all;Improved outreach to all audiences, and notably those who do not have an easy access to science and research activities;Better communication of R&amp;I results and activities to society, increased and strengthened opportunities for citizens’ engagement. 
Scope:Proposals should cover both the organisation of the European Researchers’ Night and the implementation of the Researchers at Schools initiative.The European Researchers' Night takes place every year, on the last Friday of September[1]. It supports events that can last up to two days: they can start on Friday and continue the following day. Pre-events, prior to the main event, and related post-events, such as wrap-up meetings or small-scale follow-up events, can also be organised. It is the occasion for a Europe-wide public and media event for the promotion of research careers.The European Researchers’ Night targets the general public, addressing and attracting people regardless of the level of their scientific background, with a special focus on young people and their families, pupils and students, and notably those who do not have easy access to, and thus are less inclined to engage in STEAM fields (science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics) or research activities.The Researchers at Schools initiative brings researchers to schools and other pedagogical and educational centres to interact with pupils on societal challenges and on the key role of research to address them. Pupils will thus also learn directly about research projects and initiatives related to EU main priorities.Types of activitiesEuropean Researchers’ Night activities can combine education with entertainment, especially when addressing young audiences. They can take various forms, such as exhibitions, hands-on experiments, science shows, simulations, debates, games, competitions, quizzes, etc. Where appropriate, engagement with educational institutions should be sought in order to encourage formal and informal science education with the aim of improving the scientific knowledge base. The European Researchers’ Night should be highlighted as a European (and Europe-wide) event, and each proposal should promote the European Union and its impact on citizens’ daily life in the most appropriate way, according to the set-up and the configuration of the event, its location and its activities.Researchers at Schools activities will allow researchers to showcase their work and interact with pupils. Researchers will engage with teachers, educators and pupils on challenges related to climate change, sustainable development, health and other issues related to the European Commission priorities and main orientations, such as the European Green Deal or the EU Missions. The Researchers at Schools activities should take place at any time during the project duration and should be subject to a dedicated promotion, particularly towards schools and other pedagogical and educational centres.Involvement of researchers funded by Horizon Europe or previous Framework Programmes, notably by the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, is highly encouraged.Both the European Researchers’ Night and Researchers at Schools initiative should promote gender balance, diversity and inclusiveness in science in terms of planned activities and researchers involved.The European Commission has defined priorities, notably through the EU Missions, which aim to tackle challenges faced by our societies. Applicants are encouraged to focus on, and include activities relating to these priorities identified by the Missions in their events.Partnerships and coordination at regional, national or cross-border levels will be strongly encouraged aiming at a good geographical spread and avoiding overlaps. Activities carried-out in non-associated third countries are not eligible for funding.High-quality applications not retained due to lack of funding may be granted the status of associated events.Eligible costs will take the form of lump sum contributions as stipulated in Decision of 11 March 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions and unit contributions for Marie Skłodowska-Curie actions under the Horizon Europe Programme.Applicants are encouraged to submit proposals covering activities for both 2026 and 2027, including the organisation of two successive editions[2] (2026 and 2027) of the European Researchers’ Night and implementation of Researchers at Schools activities during the project duration.
[1] Except for countries which for strong cultural reasons would be prevented from organising any action addressing the public at large on such a date.[2]The expected contribution for projects covering two editions of the European Researchers’ Night and Researchers at Schools activities is between EUR 0.1 and 0.3 million, but this does not preclude submission and selection of proposals requesting different amounts.

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:

Guide for Applicants (to be published in June 2025 before the Call Opening)
&nbsp;
Application form - You must use the specific application forms available in the Submission System

Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE CSA)

MGA
Lump Sum MGA v1.0
Call-specific instructions
Detailed budget table (HE LS)
Guidance: &quot;Lump sums - what do I need to know?&quot;
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 2. Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

