<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl4-2024-digital-emerging-02-02","file_display_name":"Stimulating transnational research and development of next generation quantum technologies, including basic theories and components (Cascading grant with FSTP)","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Projects are expected to contribute to the following outcomes:Support to transnational projects in quantum technologies, fostering synergy between European, national and regional initiatives and promoting broader partnerships between the European stakeholders in quantum technologies. 
Scope:Proposals should support the networking and coordination of national activities in support of the Quantum Flagship by implementing calls for proposals resulting primarily in grants to third parties in this area, in accordance with the provisions of the General Annexes. Of importance is how the proposals address: i) the gaps in the Strategic Research Agenda, not covered by the Flagship activities; (ii) support transnational efforts in guaranteeing availability of critical technologies, materials and resources essential for a competitive development of next generation quantum technologies and central to strategic supply chains for an autonomous and technologically sovereign pan-European quantum ecosystem; (iii) support early-stage involvement of industry in transnational R&amp;D agendas to next generation quantum technologies, emphasizing high inclusion and participation of SME and start-ups in realizing an innovative and agile pan-European quantum ecosystem.Proposals should make provisions to actively participate in the common activities of the Quantum Flagship and in particular contribute to the activities of the existing Quantum Coordination and Support Action.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to start at TRL 1-4 and achieve TRL up to 6 by the end of the project – see General Annex B


Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System.&nbsp;The page limit of the application is 80 pages.
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may additionally be used).
The following exceptions apply: subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication networks.
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties.The support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants. The maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 1.000.000[[This maximum amount, however, may be higher if the objective of the action would be impossible or overly difficult to achieve (and duly substantiated).]] in order to allow third parties to achieve closer coordination and greater mobilisation and pooling of resources between regional, national and EU research programmes for realising the research goals of the Quantum Flagship in the area of quantum technologies.Proposals must use financial support to third parties (FSTP) to achieve closer coordination and greater mobilisation and pooling of resources between regional, national and EU research programmes for realising the research goals of the Flagship in the area of quantum technologies. A minimum 85% of the EU funding requested by the proposal must be allocated to the purpose of financial support to third parties, selected through joint calls with the participating national funding agencies.Third parties will be funded through projects of around EUR 2.5 million per project. The funding rate is 33% of the eligible costs as in the previous ERA-NET co-fund actions in support to the Quantum Flagship.
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
Call-specific instructions
Information on financial support to third parties (HE)
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 7. Digital, Industry and Space
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

