<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl5-2024-d4-02-02","file_display_name":"Robotics and other automated solutions for construction, renovation and maintenance in a sustainable built environment (Built4People Partnership)","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following expected outcomes:Reduction of construction and renovation time on-site (at least 40% reduction).Reduction of errors in construction and renovation works.Improved resource efficiency.Reduction of construction and renovation costs.Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions resulting from, and improved energy efficiency of the works on-site.Reduced environmental impact of construction works, including pollution, particulate matter[1] and noise, in the immediate vicinity.Reduction of waste generated from the works on-site.  
Scope:The transformation of the built environment should take place in a way that minimises the environmental impact of the works themselves. With the increasing rollout of highly energy efficient, sustainable buildings and deep renovation, there is a growing need for the development of robotic and automated solutions to support sustainable building construction, renovation and maintenance processes that are less disruptive, cleaner and faster.Proposals are expected to address all of the following:Investigate the use of robotic systems (including those used for 3D printing) and automation for construction and deep renovation, in order to reduce time of construction and renovation works, reduce construction errors, as well as facilitate maintenance, also minimising the impact of the works on the surrounding built environment.Explore the potential for lower construction costs through automation and robotics resulting from increased speed, improved resource efficiency and avoidance of errors.Develop robotic and automated design and construction techniques that increase energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from construction and renovation works on-site.Develop approaches that use digitally assisted design to improve resource efficiency and safety, reduce waste, and reduce construction time.Investigate the use of automated technologies for surveying, inspection and monitoring of the site.Investigate the use of automated support to augment workers’ capability and safety (e.g., lift robots, exoskeletons, automated construction site monitoring, use of augmented and virtual reality).Test and validate the prototyped solutions in at least three prototypes to assess the proposed approaches for a variety of buildings typologies representative of the European building stock. These prototypes should be validated in a lab or another relevant environment. The testing and validation are expected to address both new construction and renovation.Contribute to the activities of the Built4People partners and to the Built4People network of innovation clusters. This topic implements the co-programmed European Partnership on ‘People-centric sustainable built environment’ (Built4People). As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report on results to the European Partnership ‘People-centric sustainable built environment’ (Built4People) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs.Selected proposal(s) could consider the involvement of the European Commission's Joint Research Centre (JRC). The JRC may provide support in research activities related to robotics and other automated solutions for new construction and renovation of buildings.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to achieve TRL 4-5 by the end of the project – see General Annex B.
[1] https://www.eea.europa.eu/help/faq/what-is-particulate-matter-and

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may additionally be used).
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) may participate as member of the consortium selected for funding.
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 8. Climate, Energy and Mobility
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

