<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl5-2024-d6-01-01","file_display_name":"Centralised, reliable, cyber-secure \u0026 upgradable in-vehicle electronic control architectures for CCAM connected to the cloud-edge continuum (CCAM Partnership)","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Project results are expected to contribute to all of the following outcomes:New, centralised, reliable, cyber-secure and upgradable in-vehicle electronic control architectures for CCAM based on the application of co-designed hardware, software and big or smart data flows in combination with over-the-air updates, and corresponding to the emerging framework of the open European software-defined vehicle platform.Widespread deployment of level 4 automation in road vehicles by expanding the Operational Design Domains (ODDs) of the control system towards higher complexity (city traffic, adverse weather conditions etc.) or greater scale.Safe operation of Connected and Automated Driving (CAD) functions e.g. regarding Vulnerable Road Users (VRUs) and ODD transitions through system agility, experience-based decision making and access to cloud intelligence.Paradigm shift from human-based and component-supported vehicle control to a more integrated, resource efficient and reliable system for the control of CCAM systems.Strengthened cooperation of European OEMs and suppliers to co-design a standard cyber secure electronic architecture layout with harmonised interfaces, leveraging related developments on the open European software-defined vehicle platform. 
Scope:Since current on-board electronic systems are assembled from various controllers in a piecemeal fashion, they are not suitable for the complex, combined performance requirements of advanced levels of CCAM applications in terms of bandwidths, latency, flexibility, fail safety and cyber security. Therefore, a complete redesign of the in-vehicle control architecture is needed, combining innovations at hardware, software and data levels in the vehicle and in connection with distributed intelligence in the edge-cloud continuity. It should build on a centralised e.g. zonal or domain-based layout using distributed high-performance computing for connecting sensing and actuation systems with software updates over the air, big data flows and AI at the edge, resulting in a novel and upgradable electronic in-vehicle control scheme for safe and efficient automated driving functions and tele-operations.Important building blocks for the in-vehicle control architecture include sensors and sensor data fusion for environment perception with AI “at the edge”, using on-board high-performance computers and generic hard- and software including cyber secure components.At the same time, the new control architecture and its context aware building blocks are expected to enable the following:reliable, low-latency and high-bandwidth data communication for automated driving systems control to safeguard against cyber-attacks, malfunctions and malicious interactions.systemic functionality gains in upgradability, efficiency, modularity, compatibility, scalability, fail-operation, reliability and redundancy.definition of safety and security targets, open-source standard layouts and harmonised validation methods.easier development and integration of connected and automated driving functions. In order to achieve the expected outcomes, international cooperation is encouraged, in particular with Japan and the United States but also with other relevant strategic partners in third countries.This topic implements the co-programmed European Partnership on ‘Connected, Cooperative and Automated Mobility’ (CCAM). With a focus on CCAM, it aims to exploit synergies with the cross-domain system integration actions related to the open European software-defined vehicle platform under the KDT Joint Undertaking[1]. As such, projects resulting from this topic will be expected to report on results to the European Partnership ‘Connected, Cooperative and Automated Mobility’ (CCAM) in support of the monitoring of its KPIs and, among other, to contribute to the project ecosystem of the CSA funded by the KDT Call 2023 on the “Coordination of the European software-defined vehicle platform”.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see General Annex B.
[1]HORIZON-KDT-JU-2023-3-CSA-Topic-3 and HORIZON-KDT-JU-2023-2-RIA

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may additionally be used).
The following exceptions apply: subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication networks.
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the specific topic of the Work Programme
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard application form (HE RIA IA Stage 1)
&nbsp;
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
&nbsp;
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
HE Unit MGA v1.0
&nbsp;
Call-specific instructions
Detailed budget table (HE LS)
Information on financial support to third parties (HE)
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 8. Climate, Energy and Mobility
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

