<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-ju-ihi-2024-07-03-singe-stage","file_display_name":"Clinical validation of biomarkers for diagnosis, monitoring disease progression and treatment response","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Actions under this topic must contribute to all the following expected outcomes:Access for healthcare professionals to novel, robust and fit for purpose biomarkers1 with linked technologies enabling their use in clinical setting and progress towards validation. Biomarkers and linked technologies may be for diagnosis, monitoring disease progression, selecting the optimal therapeutic treatments, or assessing treatment response.Availability for researchers of robust and fit-for-purpose biomarkers with linked technologies enabling their clinical use for diagnosing disease, disease monitoring, or monitoring treatment response. This will enable researchers to develop safer and more effective personalised treatments tailored to the individual’s characteristics and the stage of their disease. Alternatively, availability for researchers of key technology (e.g. companion diagnostics) that could be essential for the safe and appropriate use and selection of a corresponding drug or biological product or its development.Availability for regulators of robust evidence on the suitability of selected biomarkers and their linked technologies to enable regulatory acceptance for a specific use. 1 See definition as in the IHI JU Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (Glossary): BIOMARKERS are biological characteristics, which can be molecular, anatomic, physiologic, or biochemical. These characteristics can be measured and evaluated objectively. They act as indicators of a normal or a pathogenic biological process. They allow the assessment of the pharmacological response to a therapeutic intervention. A biomarker shows a specific physical trait or a measurable biologically-produced change in the body that is linked to a disease or a particular health condition. A biomarker may be used to assess or detect a specific disease as early as possible (diagnostic biomarker), the risk of developing a disease (susceptibility/risk biomarker), the evolution of a disease (prognostic biomarker) – but it can also predict response to a given treatment including potential toxicity (predictive biomarker). 
Scope:Biomarker-driven approaches for diagnosis, monitoring disease progression and assessing treatment response have immense potential to help us progress precision medicine. Despite intense research, few biomarkers are subject to rigorous testing in clinical settings and shown to be fit for purpose (clinically validated). In addition, while there are several novel biomarkers that have shown significant promise for a number of use cases, often the technology to make them accessible for clinical use is not mature enough, which hampers their validation for use. Thus, technology development or improvements to existing technologies may be required to progress these biomarkers to clinical validation. For example, there are many novel and highly innovative technologies in development (e.g. imaging, artificial intelligence (AI), omics markers, phage-based diagnostics in multiple formats among others) and their further development and validation would be a necessary element for validating their detected biomarkers in the clinic.Furthermore, different healthcare actors (e.g. academics, clinicians, patients, health technology developers and regulators) may have different definitions and expectations on the utilities of biomarkers, and there is a need for an aligned methodological framework for scaling up the clinical validation of candidate biomarkers.To address this challenge, this topic aims:to progress candidate biomarkers towards clinical validation and, when relevant, to regulatory acceptance; and/orto progress towards clinical validation innovative technologies necessary for making biomarker(s) accessible for clinical use. In proposals focusing uniquely on these technologies, applicants should justify how such progress will enable the validation of the biomarker(s) for use in a clinical context. Projects funded under this topic should:Assemble a cross-sectoral public-private partnership to align and develop a methodological framework and roadmap for progressing selected candidate biomarker(s) and/or linked technologies enabling the clinical use of the biomarker(s) (or a combination thereof) to rigorous clinical validationProvide a justification and clearly demonstrate why the proposal area responds to an unmet public health need1.Progress biomarker(s) and/or technologies towards clinical and analytical validation in one or more of these areas: diagnosing disease, early treatment path selection, monitoring disease progression, or treatment response assessment:   All types of biomarkers including digital, combinations of biomarkers and multimodal biomarkers are in scope. Proposals addressing biomarker(s) intended for specific populations such as the elderly or children are very welcome.The candidate biomarkers can be combined with existing biomarkers for more personalised decision making.All types of technologies for progressing biomarkers to a stage closer to clinical validation, including innovative and novel approaches, are in scope. Some examples could be technologies for the effective collection, preparation, measurement and analysis of samples and biomarkers, or diagnostic equipment, methods, or systems.In their proposal, applicants must clearly identify the candidate biomarker(s) and/or linked technology(ies) and the proposed application in research and development (R&amp;D) and/or clinical practice.Applicants should provide in their proposal sufficient preliminary evidence, including relevant methodology(ies) and high-quality data to demonstrate that the biomarker(s) and/or technology(ies) can be progressed towards clinical validation and, when relevant, to regulatory acceptance.As relevant, applicants must ensure effective collection, preparation, measurement, and analysis of biomarker samples to allow validation in the clinical setting.    Build on existing solutions to develop a collaborative platform to integrate, analyse and share data (historical or generated de novo) gathered for the validation of biomarker(s) and/or linked technologies during the project, as well as to support future biomarker validation beyond the project duration. Applicants should plan to ensure the future scalability and sustainability of the platform and future data sharing and ensure adherence to FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable, reusable) principles.Develop a regulatory strategy and interaction plan for evidence generation to support the regulatory qualification of the biomarker/s and/or technologies and engage with regulators in a timely manner (e.g. national competent authorities, European Medicines Agency (EMA) Innovation Task Force, qualification advice). Applicants should reserve resources to support these interactions.Elaborate a plan for interacting with all the relevant actors in the learning healthcare system (for example clinicians, academic researchers, healthcare professionals, health technology developers, regulators, policy makers, and others as relevant) to align on utilities of the candidate biomarker(s) and/or technologies for clinical use and guide the roadmap.Disseminate the results of the project to ensure uptake by relevant stakeholders, including healthcare systems and technology developers.Applicants should also reserve resources to synergise with other relevant initiatives, including other projects funded under this topic and those funded under IHI Call 3 topic 12 as relevant. 1 See definition in Art 125.1 of the Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085 establishing the Joint Undertakings under Horizon Europe: “An unmet public health need shall be defined as a need currently not addressed by the health care systems for availability or accessibility reasons, for example where there is no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment for a given health condition or if people’s access to health care is limited because of cost, distance to health facilities or waiting times.”2 https://www.ihi.europa.eu/apply-funding/ihi-call-3 
Expected Impact:Actions under this topic are expected to achieve the following impacts:New clinically-validated biomarker-driven approaches are available that lead, as relevant, to more precise and effective diagnosis, leaner diagnosis-to-treatment pathways, better treatment path selection, or improved follow-up and treatment response assessment and monitoring.A significant reduction in the diagnostic or therapeutic burden for patients (and caregivers) for example by favouring non- or minimally-invasive approaches.Validated tools and approaches supporting evidence-based health and care decisions addressing both the needs of patients and of healthcare systems.An increase in the competitiveness of European health industries. 


Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
&nbsp;&sect;&nbsp; for a single-stage Call, the limit for RIA full proposals is 50 pages
&nbsp;
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes&nbsp;and in the ''Conditions of the Calls for proposals and Calls management rules'' section of the&nbsp;IHI JU Work Programme (WP)
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes&nbsp;and in the ''Conditions of the Calls for proposals and Calls management rules'' section of the&nbsp;IHI JU Work Programme (WP)
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the&nbsp;''Conditions of the Calls for proposals and Calls management rules'' section of the&nbsp;IHI JU Work Programme (WP)

    &nbsp;specific      conditions on Availability, Accessibility and Affordability (3A) apply to this topic
    JU's      right to object to transfer/exclusive licensing


Documents
Where relevant, templates of the reference documents and associated guidance can be found on the&nbsp;IHI JU&nbsp;website&nbsp;.
&nbsp;Regarding the application forms for submitting proposals, the relevant templates and annexes are available to download in the submission system.
&nbsp;
&nbsp;The IHI JU 7th&nbsp;Call for proposals full topics text is available&nbsp;here
&nbsp;
Evaluation form (single and two-stage Calls)
-&nbsp;IHI JU Evaluation form for Research and Innovation Actions&nbsp;(single and two-stage Calls)
&nbsp;
&nbsp;Proposal Templates Part A and Part B (Research and Innovation Actions &ndash; single-stage and second stage of two-stage procedure)&nbsp;
-&nbsp;&nbsp;Proposal template - Part A of the proposal is generated by the IT system in the submission environment (for more information see the HE Part A template&nbsp;here). In Part A of the proposal applicants insert general information on their proposal (e.g. proposal acronym), details on the participants, on the budget, information on Ethics and Security, as well as other type of questions (e.g. information on clinical studies). Please note that&nbsp;only&nbsp;Part A of this template is applicable for this call. For Part B, see point below.
-&nbsp;&nbsp;IHI JU Proposal template (RIA/FP) - Part B
&nbsp;
Proposal Annexes
-&nbsp;Annex: Type of Participants
The &ldquo;type of participants&rdquo;&nbsp;is an IHI specific annex. The excel template can be found&nbsp;here&nbsp;and the instructions on how to fill in this template can be found&nbsp;here.
This is a compulsory annex and it must be uploaded as a separate document in the submission system.
This annex is applicable to single-stage and both stages of two-stage Calls.
- Annex: Declaration of in-kind contribution commitment
The &ldquo;Declaration of in-kind contribution commitment&rdquo;&nbsp;is an IHI specific annex.
The word document template can be found&nbsp;here
This is a is a compulsory annex and it must be uploaded as a separate document in the submission system.
This annex&nbsp;&nbsp;is applicable to all single-stages calls and the second stage of two-stage calls.
-&nbsp;Annex: In-kind contributions to additional activities (IKAA)
The &lsquo;&rsquo;In-kind contributions to additional activities (IKAA)&rsquo;&rsquo;&nbsp;is an IHI specific annex. The excel template can be found&nbsp;here&nbsp;and the instructions on how to fill in this template can be found&nbsp;here.
This is an optional annex and it is applicable to all single-stages calls and the second stage of two-stage calls.
-&nbsp;Annex: Essential information for clinical studies
The information on clinical studies is a Horizon Europe annex.
This is a is a compulsory annex and it must be uploaded as a separate document in the submission system.
If your proposal does not include clinical studies, please upload a statement declaring your proposal does not include clinical studies.
The information on clinical studies annex can be found&nbsp;here:
The annex is applicable only&nbsp;to all single-stages calls and the second stage of two-stage calls.
- Annex: Ethics
This is a HE annex. Ethics self-assessment should be included in proposal part A. However, in Calls where several serious ethics issues are expected, the characters limit in this section of proposal part A may not be sufficient for participants to give all necessary information. In those cases, participants may include additional information in an annex to proposal part B.&nbsp;
This is an optional annex and it is applicable to all single-stage calls and the second stage of two-stage calls.
- Annex to the budget for the Full Proposal&nbsp;
This is a compulsory&nbsp;annex, which complements the budget figures already included in the proposal budget in PART A. Its purpose is to correctly guide the consortium in providing IHI-specific budget items (e.g. IKOP, IKAA, FC PAID, FC RECEIVED, etc.) and to comply with IHI additional eligibility criteria (e.g. 45% industry contribution).
This annex&nbsp;&nbsp;is applicable to all single-stages calls and the second stage of two-stage calls.
 Model Grant Agreement (MGA)
-&nbsp;&nbsp;HE&nbsp;General MGA v1.0
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
Additional documents:

-&nbsp;Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085 of 19 November 2021 establishing the Joint Undertakings under Horizon Europe and repealing Regulations (EC) No 219/2007, (EU) No 557/2014, (EU) No 558/2014, (EU) No 559/2014, (EU) No 560/2014, (EU) No 561/2014 and (EU) No 642/2014&nbsp;&nbsp;(in short Single Basic Act &lsquo;SBA&rsquo; or Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085).
-&nbsp;IHI JU Work Programme (WP)
-&nbsp;Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA)
-&nbsp;IHI JU Guide for Applicants
-&nbsp;IHI&nbsp;JU&nbsp;FAQs
Horizon Europe Reference Documents
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 4. Health
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 12. Missions
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA&nbsp;&mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
&nbsp;Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

Support Info: 
&nbsp;All the information concerning the IHI JU Calls is also published on the&nbsp;IHI JU website.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
All the questions pertaining to the IHI JU Calls are to be addressed to&nbsp;infodesk@ihi.europa.eu.
&nbsp;
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

