<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl2-2024-heritage-eccch-01-03","file_display_name":"A European Collaborative Cloud for Cultural Heritage – Innovative tools for advanced data enrichment","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Projects should contribute to all of the following expected outcomes:The European Collaborative Cloud for Cultural Heritage (ECCCH) is widely used by European cultural heritage professionals and researchers[1] for metadata enrichment of digital cultural heritage objects[2].Scientific and professional value as well as intellectual property and other associated rights are effectively embedded in the digital objects of the ECCCH throughout the digital content production chain, thus enabling and boosting cooperation, sharing and re-use.European cultural heritage professionals and researchers are aware and make use of new collaboration- and business models based on values and rights embedded in the digital objects throughout the multi-actor value chain.European cultural heritage professionals and researchers are provided with clear information as well as targeted training modules on the innovative tools and methods developed. 
Scope:This topic aims at developing and implementing a set of innovative tools and methods on the European Collaborative Cloud for Cultural Heritage (ECCCH) for advanced data enrichment. Concrete applications of these tools and methods should be provided for at least the following uses:Metadata enrichmentEmbedding scientific and professional value as well as IP and other associated rights throughout the digital content production chainCollaboration- and business models based on the multi-actor value chain Metadata enrichmentThe last decades have seen a growing mass of uninterpreted or misinterpreted data related to cultural heritage assets. Innovative methods are needed to achieve a massive production of semantically enriched digital resources in the context of multidisciplinary research and professional activities.To make cultural heritage content findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable (FAIR), and facilitate discoverability, digital objects must be tagged with good quality metadata. This raises several issues that need to be considered in the design and use of the ECCCH, such as metadata models for different application domains, vocabularies and ontological structures, multilingualism, efficient interfaces for accessing and managing metadata and paradata, effective implementation and reuse of existing models for heterogeneous applications, as well as sustainable maintenance of metadata as the real world and its conceptualisations evolve over time.For this use, projects funded under this topic should develop and test innovative tools for human-driven acquisition, categorisation and annotation of digital objects (e.g. texts, images, 3D models, sounds or videos) combined with new AI-based approaches, resulting in high-quality content and metadata. Methods building on citizen science like approaches may also be considered. The tools should foster the emergence of new collaborative data curation scenarios within a multidisciplinary and multisectoral framework. They should further support innovative data interlinkage between cultural heritage objects and related actors, enabling a semi-automatic mutual enrichment process where data are completed and enhanced by detecting and integrating related sources of knowledge.Embedding scientific and professional value as well as IP and other associated rights throughout the digital content production chainWith the digital transformation of the cultural heritage area, large amounts of digital resources are emerging. However, a considerable part of this data remains inaccessible in private repositories.The ECCCH should support the transition from massive production of raw data related to activities on cultural heritage objects, to semantically rich and collectively produced digital resources (digital commons). In this context, a key to encourage data sharing is the adequate control of who may use the material created and/or curated, and of how it will be used.For this use, projects funded under this topic should develop innovative tools and methods to turn the massive digitisation effort into an opportunity to record and share not only the digital resources (with basic metadata), but also the methods and processes that led to their creation (such as human skills, technological and cognitive processes, or scientific protocols). The tools should support cultural heritage researchers and professionals to record the key steps of their activities on cultural heritage objects, ranging from the historical knowledge to the conservation, restoration and dissemination areas. The tools should produce data chains able to represent the complex workflows - often composed of combinations of individual skills and collective decisions - that constitute the creation of digital resources, as well as their progressive enrichment, transformation and re-use. This information should be linked to any data type/data element. The data chains should also embed information for managing ownership and property rights, use rights, and effective re-use of digital resources, in order to enable and encourage contribution to and use of shared repositories. These tools should, to the extent appropriate, be able to deal correctly with the different cases of unclear or contested IPR that may be encountered. The full production and enrichment chain of digital resources should be encoded, as an implicit mechanism to unveil the value chains of multi-actor collaborative productions. Block chains or other methods may be used, able to encode a stream of changes, modifications and re-uses of the digital objects.In order to encode this information, extensions to the ECCCH data model might be needed. If so, these extensions should be designed in cooperation with the ECCCH main consortium.Collaboration- and business models based on the multi-actor value chainSuch encoded value chains should enable innovative business models in collaboration with for instance cultural and creative industries. For this use, projects funded under this topic should introduce and experiment with collaboration- and business models for the data objects stored in the ECCCH, as well as the required web-based infrastructure to allow commercial collaborations. Such actions should be subject to the explicit authorisation of the owner institutions, and revenues shared with those institutions, based on the IPR information from the data value chains.Particularly in the context of sharing and re-use of digital cultural resources, the Common European Data Space for Cultural Heritage, as well as the European Open Science Cloud, might be valuable resources. Developments under these initiatives should be taken into account, as appropriate, in order to explore potential synergies and ensure complementarity.With a view to use resources efficiently and go beyond the state of the art, projects funded under this topic should, where appropriate, build on previous existing research, methods and solutions. Proposals should therefore ensure that existing tools and methods and their potential (re-)use are properly examined.Projects funded under this topic may, as appropriate, exploit and contribute to the European Open Science Cloud cross-domain interoperability framework and build on work by previous large-scale projects like PARTHENOS and SSHOC[3], as well as on data enrichment tools and activities in the context of the Common European Data Space for Cultural Heritage. Furthermore, in order to exploit potential synergies, proposals should consider, when appropriate, to build on the work of the coordination project on the European Open Science Cloud Architecture and Interoperability Framework resulting from topic HORIZON-INFRA-2023-EOSC-01-05. [3]Ease of use for the target users is of paramount importance. Therefore, tools and methods should be developed in close collaboration with actively involved representative target users. Furthermore, tools and methods should be thoroughly tested and verified with a significant number of users before the end of the project. Financial support to third parties may be used to facilitate the engagement with users. The financial support to third parties can only be provided in the form of grants.In order to facilitate the access for less well-equipped users, the developed software tools should to the extent possible be accessible online without requiring installation nor special or particularly powerful equipment. Also, the developed software tools should to the extent appropriate be designed to allow use and avoid loss of work in situations with unstable or limited connectivity.Projects funded under this topic should demonstrate the potential of the developed tools and methods through representative case studies, conducted in collaboration with relevant users. These case studies should cover a significant share of the range of cultural heritage objects, materials and issues that the tools and methods intend to address. The results of these case studies should produce information that can serve as models for promoting the re-use of the tools and methods in other contexts and by other users within, and where appropriate beyond, the ECCCH.Proposals should, furthermore, foresee appropriate resources to provide clear information and elaborate targeted training modules for users of the developed tools and methods.The tools to be developed should be implemented using the low-level libraries established by the project funded under topic HORIZON-CL2-2023-HERITAGE-ECCCH-01-01. The tools developed should be compliant with the design of the ECCCH, and should be integrated with the ECCCH before the end of the project, together with proper documentation. All software and other related deliverables should be compliant with the data model and the software development guidelines elaborated by the project funded under topic HORIZON-CL2-2023-HERITAGE-ECCCH-01-01. If appropriate these tools should be developed with a view to a wider deployment, including in the Common European Data Space for Cultural Heritage, as well as, when appropriate, for reuse via the European Open Science Cloud. Furthermore, content produced by these tools for the ECCCH should be interoperable for sharing, when appropriate, via the Common European Data Space for Cultural Heritage and/or the European Open Science Cloud.Proposals should furthermore make provisions to actively participate in the common activities of the ECCCH initiative. In particular, projects funded under this topic should coordinate technical work with projects funded under other call topics of the ECCCH initiative, and contribute to the activities and objectives of the project funded under the topic HORIZON-CL2-2023-HERITAGE-ECCCH-01-01. Proposals should include a budget for the attendance to regular joint coordination meetings, and may consider covering the costs of any other joint activities without the prerequisite to detail concrete joint activities at this stage.Projects funded under this topic should moreover set up their project websites under the common ECCCH website, managed by the project funded under topic HORIZON-CL2-2023-HERITAGE-ECCCH-01-01.Furthermore, the Commission expects projects funded under this topic to establish regular coordination mechanisms in order to ensure synchronised planning as well as synergy and/or complementarity of deliverables and outcomes.The Commission recommends considering reporting periods of 12 months when elaborating proposals.Please also refer to the Destination introduction text to consider some key characteristics of the vision for the ECCCH.
[1]‘Cultural heritage professionals and researchers’ should in the context of the ECCCH be interpreted as including all different professions and disciplines involved in the cultural heritage field, such as curators, conservators, researchers, art managers, educators, etc., that may develop their activities for instance at cultural heritage institutions, research organisations, higher education establishments or in the cultural and creative industries.[2]‘Cultural heritage objects’ should in the context of the ECCCH be interpreted as including any form of cultural heritage that can be represented in a digital format: tangible, intangible, born digital; movable objects, buildings, documents, inscriptions, etc.[3]This by no means imply that partners from such projects need to be part of the consortium.[4]This by no means imply that partners from such projects need to be part of the consortium.

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
The page limit of the application is 60 pages.
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may additionally be used).
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2021-2027) – and in actions under the Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (2021-2025). [[This decision is available on the Funding and Tenders Portal, in the reference documents section for Horizon Europe, under ‘Simplified costs decisions’ or through this link: https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/docs/2021-2027/horizon/guidance/ls-decision_he_en.pdf]].
Beneficiaries will be subject to these additional requirements on outputs:All software developed should be open source, licensed under a CC0 public domain dedication or under an open-source licence as recommended by the Free Software Foundation[[https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list#SoftwareLicenses]] and the Open-Source Initiative[[ https://opensource.org/licenses]]. If the use of open source software components would require disproportional efforts or significantly diminish the quality or performance of the software, proprietary components may be used provided that: an open functional replacement is available; they do not introduce proprietary data formats or Application Programming Interfaces; a full user license free of charge for an unlimited period of time is granted to the consortium responsible for the ECCCH and all its users.
Beneficiaries may provide financial support to third parties to cultural heritage institutions, in take-up of tools, technologies and for populating and validating the relevant use cases through experiments. A maximum of 15% of the budget may be dedicated to financial support to third parties. The maximum amount to be granted to each third party is EUR 60 000.
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
&nbsp;
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
&nbsp;
MGA
Lump Sum MGA v1.0
&nbsp;
Call-specific instructions
Detailed budget table (HE LS)
Information on financial support to third parties (HE)
&nbsp;
Guidance: &quot;Lump sums - what do I need to know?&quot;
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 5. Culture, creativity and inclusive society
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 12. Missions
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

