<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-cl5-2024-d6-01-06","file_display_name":"Optimising multimodal network and traffic management, harnessing data from infrastructures, mobility of passengers and freight transport","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Project results are expected to contribute to at least 4 of the following expected outcomes:Optimised multimodal transport network and traffic management, for efficient door-to-door mobility of passengers and freight (from producers to last mile deliveries).Validated solutions for effective and secure data exchange across all modes of transport, for dynamic and responsive multimodal network and traffic management.Validated systems for accurate detection and resolution of network bottlenecks, improving safety, security, resilience and overall performance of the transport network, enabling pro-active mobility management.New tools and services for optimising mobility of passengers and freight, in cities and other areas, cutting traffic jams and improving multimodal traffic flows. The proposed solutions should demonstrate (e.g. through simulations, pilots) the potential to reduce by at least 30% the average travel delay, as well as the overall transport energy consumption and emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants in the network.Workable governance arrangements for multimodal transport network and traffic management, in view of further supporting regulatory and policy actions.  
Scope:Optimised multimodal network and traffic management is essential for an efficient transport network and seamless door-to-door mobility of passengers and freight. Such advanced capabilities need to be supported by harnessing data from physical and digital infrastructures, as well as from the mobility of passengers and freight, involving different types of vehicles, rolling stock, aircraft and vessels (including zero-emission, connected and automated), technologies and the use of innovative services. At the same time, novel forms of mobility (e.g. shared, micro-mobility or even hyperloop) and new services (e.g. Mobility as a Service) present new challenges, but also great opportunities for enhanced management and optimisation of the transport network. This includes advances to fully utilise dynamic and interoperable data exchange from multiple actors and transport modes, for well-tested and validated systems and operations, with appropriate governance arrangements in place.In this context, building on best practices (technological, non-technological and socio-economic), ongoing projects on multimodal network and traffic management, as well as other initiatives (e.g. the Digital Transport and Logistics Forum and the common European mobility data space), actions should address at least 6 of the following aspects:Developing and testing new generation multimodal, flexible, agile and adaptable, secure and resilient transport network and traffic management systems, leveraging state of the art technologies (e.g. artificial intelligence, big data, edge computing, internet of things, blockchain).Assessing and simulating the effects on multimodal network and traffic management of new forms of mobility (e.g. zero-emission, connected and automated vehicles and vessels, car sharing/pooling, active-/micro-mobility, sustainable land/air transport modes and drones), as well as of innovative services (e.g. Mobility/Logistics as a Service), in different urban and rural environments, considering the socio-economic acceptability and different user needs (including vulnerable and gender groups).Performing simulations for network-wide optimisation of traffic models, aiming towards a “social optimum” and an evaluation of mobility options for multimodal mobility and freight flows (including last-mile), enabling a modal shift to more sustainable modes (leveraging public transport), while addressing planned and unplanned events of mobility and freight systems under disruption.Demonstrating the collection, aggregation, analysis and use of network-wide data from infrastructures, vehicles/vessels and users (using ICT and EU satellite-based systems), from across transport modes (modal and intermodal data), stakeholders and national borders, while preserving data privacy, security and confidentiality to data providers, thereby enabling effective and intelligent multimodal network and traffic management, and even further data exchanges with other sectors (e.g. energy and telecoms).Performing early pilot activities on multimodal network and traffic management of limited scale in mobility hubs (e.g. rail nodes, maritime or inland ports), where cross-modal or hinterland inter-connections are present for passenger and freight traffic flows.Designing and testing innovative multimodal network and traffic management services, offered by public and/or private stakeholders, which can be operated at network centres (e.g. at cities or hubs) and/or at decentralised level (e.g. by users or vehicles/vessels themselves).Developing and showcasing workable governance and dynamic incentive models, for the effective engagement of public and private stakeholders in interoperable data exchange, in the optimisation of transport network and traffic management and in promoting a better use of (public) transport systems. Evaluating the qualitative and quantitative impact of the proposed measures and project results, including on reducing travel delay, transport emissions and energy consumption, with a clear baseline for each use case.  If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries are expected to describe if and how the use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS are incorporated in the proposed solutions. In addition, proposals should describe the technological and societal readiness of the systems and/or techniques proposed for development and use, particularly in the case of systems based on Artificial Intelligence.The multimodal aspects listed above are complementary and in synergy with actions foreseen in other parts of the Work Programme, such as in the areas of C-ITS (as part of Connected, Cooperative and Automated Mobility), rail traffic management (as part of EU-Rail Joint Undertaking), air traffic management (as part of SESAR 3 Joint Undertaking) and vessel traffic management (as part of Zero-Emission Waterborne Transport).In line with the Union’s strategy for international cooperation in research and innovation, international cooperation is encouraged.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to achieve TRL 5 by the end of the project – see General Annex B.


Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
If projects use satellite-based earth observation, positioning, navigation and/or related timing data and services, beneficiaries must make use of Copernicus and/or Galileo/EGNOS (other data and services may additionally be used).
The following exceptions apply: subject to restrictions for the protection of European communication networks.
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the specific topic of the Work Programme
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Standard application form (HE RIA, IA)
Standard application form (HE RIA IA Stage 1)
&nbsp;
Standard evaluation form &mdash; will be used with the necessary adaptations
Standard evaluation form (HE RIA, IA)
&nbsp;
MGA
HE General MGA v1.0
HE Unit MGA v1.0
&nbsp;
Call-specific instructions
Detailed budget table (HE LS)
Information on financial support to third parties (HE)
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 8. Climate, Energy and Mobility
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

