<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-er-ju-2024-fa5","file_display_name":"DIGITAL AUTOMATIC COUPLER – TESTING TO SUPPORT DAC AUTHORISATION, MIX AND MATCH FOR DAC COUPLER HEAD AND DRAFT GEAR INTERCHANGEABILITY AND DAC HYBRID COUPLER FITTING SOLUTIONS","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Building upon the results of S2R freight innovation pillar 5 (IP5)[1], European Digital Automatic Coupler Delivery Programme (EDDP)[2] and upon the work being delivered by Europe’s Rail Joint Undertaking (EU-Rail) Flagship Project 5 (FP5-TRANS4M-R)[3], the Project stemming from this topic is expected to contribute to the EU-Rail Programme addressing the activities on Full Digital Freight Train Operations considered within FP5-TRANS4M-R.Stakeholders gathered under the open Europen DAC Delivery Programme (EDDP)[4] have agreed to a overall plan which target to have DAC pre-deployment pilot trains by early 2026, having them running for a couple of years in European freight operations to gather the necessary data and confidence before launching the full deployment of such solution. To reach this target, the following goals need to be achieved:ensure that the pre-deployment trains are using the starter/basic package considering the activities to support DAC authorisation. The starter/basic package comprises the following digital/automation functions: mechanical or push-button uncoupling from wagon side, uncoupling in-train from locomotives, energy/data management ready for other functions, train composition/wagon order, automated brake test, train integrity as functionality and automated technical wagon inspection,initiate mix and match tests[5] as a first step towards the interchangeability of DAC interface where the two main components of a DAC unit (coupler head and draft gear) are connected, herewith called Interface A,enlarge the number of Wagon Onboard Units (WoBu) compliant with the full digital freight train operation system architecture developed by FP5-TRANS4M-R and which would be made available to the Project stemming out of this call by the time of its start,reach a sufficient number for future deployment of the most common existing locomotives types ready to integrate hybrid couplers. The interaction with FP5-TRANS4M-R is fundamental as the activities considered within the workstreams identified within this call are linked to the functional specifications, technical architecture and deliverables of the Flagship Project. This link is crucial to ensure that the project stemming from this topic will be a valuable contribution to the FP5-TRANS4M-R. The project resulting from this topic should also support FP5-TRANS4M-R on the related DAC authorisation process, which the expected tests will be part of.All project deliverables should ensure a broad exploitation of the results and take up in the context of the European DAC Delivery Programme (EDDP).
Scope:To successfully address the expected outcomes, the Flagship Project stemming from this innovation action topic should research, develop, and deliver all the following capabilities and/or any other relevant capability within the following workstreams:Workstream 1: DAC Interface A derailment and propelling safety tests, crash tests, climate chamber tests and initial tests to prove interchangeability of DAC coupler head/shank and draft gear across DAC solutions.The Flagship Project work should contribute to specifically provide:the execution of derailment tests, crash tests and climate chamber tests with DAC interface A[6]test results for the DAC authorisation and standardisation activities within TSI and RID[7] requirements and potentially also other requirements depending where the successive pre-deployment pilot tests will take place under authorisation from the related NSAs. In relation to the above, the action to be funded under this topic is expected to provide:- Derailment and propelling safety (TRL 6):providing the necessary test results of tests on running safety (safety against derailment) and tolerable longitudinal compressive forces with the DAC interface A (derailment tests). By doing so, running safety of freight wagons equipped with DAC interface A can be proven and TSI requirements for authorisation fulfilled,validating the limit value of compressive forces for DAC interface A of each coupler supplier, based on a specified reference wagon composition as well as for interoperable usage,with running safety validation assessment tool for propelled tests managed under the requirements of international standards and norms,providing input to the EU-Rail System Pillar, in the Standardisation and TSI input plan (at least once in Q4 for each calendar year), and to the ERA as needed for the upcoming TSI revision package with regards to DAC.Testing requirements and assets to be considered:   locomotives to perform compressive forces (minimum of 500 kN)three (3) different wagon types as test specimenbarrier wagonstwenty (20) DAC interface A and spare partsmeasuring equipment     - Crash tests considering (TRL 6/7):validated figures for DAC interface A couplers according to the crash test requirements based on the requirements of EN 15227 and RID,provision of input to the EU-Rail System Pillar, in the Standardisation and TSI input plan (at least once in Q4 for each calendar year), and to the ERA as needed for the upcoming TSI revision package with regards to DAC.Testing requirements and assets to be considered:   ten (10) DAC interface A unitsmeasuring equipment     - Climate Chamber Tests (TRL 6/7):providing validation of DAC interface A couplers in harsh environment, esp. ice and snow based on T1 standard (-25°C / +40°C) fulfilling the requirements for authorisationTesting requirements and assets to be considered:   three (3) different wagon types as test specimenfour (4) DAC interface A coupler per DAC supplier. Those units could be reused from the ones used on the measuring equipment.     Workstream 2: Mix and match tests - initial tests to prove interchangeability of DAC interface A coupler head/shank and draft gear across DAC suppliers.The R&amp;I work should provide the first results for interchangeable DAC interface A couplers for the handling, the transmission of forces and the behaviour for defined operational test cases.Based on the test results, a comprehensive test specification should be defined for a fully developed mix and match test aiming for the interchangeability of interface A in DAC couplers.The action to be funded under this topic is expected to:manage tests to ensure the interchangeability across all project-involved DAC suppliers,provide bench tests to measure the force transmission at different coupling angles and perform operational tests (TRL 7) on defined test cases from FP5-TRANS4M-R.Testing requirements and assets to be considered:   rail infrastructure: straight, curve and S-shape tracksthree (3) different wagon typesone locomotivesix (6) DAC interface A couplers per DAC suppliermeasuring equipment     Workstream 3: Hybrid coupler for mainline and shunting locomotives, technical analysis and development of fitting solutions.The Flagship Project stemming from this innovation action topic should first identify the most suitable locomotive types (mainline and shunter locomotives) for the technical integration of power supply and communication systems.The action to be funded under this topic is expected to deliver:the evaluation and assessment of existing technical documentation of the locomotive types considered.the analysis of technical boundaries:   Technical solutions for full system integration of hybrid couplers/ power supply system.    the evaluation and assessment of potential technical solution for the integration of power supply and communication systems within the locomotive types considered.a roadmap for technical integration within the planned timeframe to allow the preparation of test runs (TRL 7) (based on the FP5- TRANS4M-R test specifications for DAC hybrid coupler and which would be made available to the Project stemming out of this call by the time of its start), support of trials and document/assessment of the results.Testing requirements and assets to be considered:   minimum eight (8) hybrid couplers,pre-deployments trains considering a mixture of mainline and shunting locomotives.     The specific tests considered within the workstream actions are expected to comply with the requirements mentioned above and the applicants are expected to perform the number of tests needed to reach this goal.Workstream 4: Wagon Onboard Unit (WoBu).The activities within this workstream should contribute to:The provision of wagon onboard unit prototypes for FP5-TRANS4M-R. Different suppliers will have to be involved and to deliver the needed number of WoU. The wagon onboard unit prototypes can be provided by different companies if compliance to the requirements is reached. These units should be conceived according to the applicable Full Digital Freight Train requirements of FP5-TRANS4M-R, which would be made available to the Project stemming out of this call by the time of its start, and should already have demonstrated an adequate level of interoperability on the reference test system in a relevant environment. The project should perform demonstrations in operational environments (TRL 7). It must be foreseen that the number of WoUs provided and supporting the EDDP train functions would amount to minimum thirty (30) units. These units should be conceived according to the applicable Full Digital Freight Train requirements.Interaction with the System Pillar The System Pillar aims to guide, support and secure the work of the Innovation Pillar (i.e. to ensure that research is targeted on commonly agreed and shared customer requirements and operational needs, compatible and aligned to the system architecture), and the Innovation Pillar will impact the scope of the System Pillar where new technologies or processes mean that innovations can drivea change in approach, as well as delivering detailed specifications and requirements.In this respect, the proposal should allocate necessary resources that would be dedicated to areas linked to the System Pillar conceptual and architecture works – particularly addressing specification development (the interaction is illustrated in the System Pillar – Innovation Pillar interaction note (Annex VI of this Work Programme) and to areas linked with the EDDP). The alignment of the activities will primarily take place during the Grant Preparation Phase and ramp up phase of the awarded proposal, and there will be continued, structured and regular interaction through the life of the project.Gender dimension In this topic the integration of the gender dimension (sex and gender analysis) in research and innovation content is not a mandatory requirement.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to achieve a TRL 6/7 – see General Annex B for a guide to the TRL definitions and criteria to be used.
[1]Results from Shift2Rail activities should be taken into account, please see FR8RAIL II (https://projects.shift2rail.org/s2r_ip5_n.aspx?p=FR8RAIL%20ii ) D1.2-FR82 Automatic coupling and wagon design spec[2]https://rail-research.europa.eu/european-dac-delivery-programme/[3]Indication of the expected input to be taken into account is provided in the workstream below[4]https://rail-research.europa.eu/european-dac-delivery-programme/[5]Tests intended to prove and ensure the different DAC coupler head and draft gear solutions are interchangeable through a standardsation of interface A.[6]Refers to the specific interface where the the two main components of a DAC unit (coupler head and draft gear) are connected.[7]Regulations concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Rail (RID).

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Regarding admissibility conditions and related requirements, part A of the Horizon Europe Work Programme 2023-2024 General Annexes applies, with the following exception: the limit for a full Innovation Action application is set to 120 pages.
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    

The award criteria included in the General Annexes of the Horizon Europe – Work Programme 2023-2024 are complemented with additional criteria as specified in Annex VIII to this Work Programme.

    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    

The granting authority can fund a maximum of one project.

    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
In addition, as specified in section 2.3.8.1 of this WP 2024, and considering the key contributing role of this topic, in designing the dissemination and communication activities, the proposal should consider that the “Flagship Project” will be part of the overall EU-Rail Programme and the planning of key events – demonstrations, participations to fairs, etc. – will be coordinated at Programme level and by the “Stakeholder Relations and Dissemination” structure of the JU.
The funding rate of the action is 60% of the eligible costs to achieve the leverage effect established in the SBA. Each Consortia may decide internally different funding rates in line with the provisions of Article 34 of Horizon Europe nevertheless complying with the overall funding rate of 60%.
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2021-2027) – and in actions under the Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (2021-2025). [[This decision is available on the Funding and Tenders Portal, in the reference documents section for Horizon Europe, under ‘Simplified costs decisions’ or through this link: https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/docs/2021-2027/horizon/guidance/ls-decision_he_en.pdf]].
The starting date of grants awarded under this topic may be as of the submission date of the application. Applicants must justify the need for a retroactive starting date in their application. Costs incurred from the starting date of the action may be considered eligible.
As specified in section 2.3.8.1 of this WP 2024, in order to facilitate the contribution to the achievement of the EU-Rail objectives, the options regarding 'linked actions' of the EU-Rail Model Grant Agreement and the provisions therein, is enabled in the corresponding EU-Rail Grant Agreements.The action that is expected to be funded under this topic will be complementary to the following actions:- FP5-TRANS4M-R (GA: 101102009)- DACcord (GA: 101121855)Please note that the list is non-exhaustive as additional Linked Projects may follow at a later stage of the programme implementation to complement the activity.
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
Indicative budget
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 5.9 million.
Applicant Private[[As defined in Article 2(5) of Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085.]] Members of the EU-Rail part of consortia responding to this topic should provide in-kind contributions to additional activities to be declared via the template model available on the F&amp;T portal. The amount of total in-kind contributions (i.e. in-kind contributions for operational activities and in-kind contributions for additional activities) should be no less than 1.263[[In order to support a leverage factor of no less than the ratio between the contribution from members other than the Union and the Union financial contribution, as on the basis of Articles 88 and 89 of Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085.]] times the funding request, in aggregate, of these applicant Private Members. Any discrepancy must be well and duly justified.
In this respect, the grant agreements will set, in principle, annual deliverable on in-kind contributions for the projects selected under this topic, as well as mandatory reporting requirements, for those applicants who are Private Members of EU-Rail.
Indicative project duration
24 months
Special skills and/or capabilities expected from the Applicant(s)
Applicants should ensure that their proposals and consortium reflect the aggregated expertise to perform the activities and achieve the objectives set by the topic.
The applicants are expected to gather the necessary technical expertise from Operators, Infrastructure Managers, DAC Suppliers, Loco Suppliers, Loco Keepers as well as the capabilities, capacity and proven experience to execute the required test program and to provide the test results. The applicants should also ensure the provision of the required test infrastructure and test assets and the managerial expertise for its execution. Applicants must ensure their capacity to industrialise and respect the normative landscape applicable to electronic / electropneumatic / electromechanical products for passenger and/or freight railway applications.
Complementary expertise from research institutes and academia, could allow

    planning, developing, studying, testing and evaluating solutions, systems and demonstrators together with the previous categories of expertise,
    supporting any possible scientific or methodological issues that may arise during the performance of the action,
    contributing to other aspects of the innovation cycle, as well as to the procedural aspects for validation, certification, etc.

Complementary expertise from other sectors and parties, with particular attention to SMEs and Start-ups, which may contribute to enhance the actions&rsquo; outcome.
Contribution to the monitoring and implementation, standardisation, of the EU-Rail Programme
The action resulting from this topic is contributing the Flagship Area 5 and it is a contributor to the achievement of the objectives identified in the Master Plan[[Master Plan available at https://rail-research.europa.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/EURAIL_Master-Plan.pdf]] as further detailed in the Multi-Annual Work Programme[[MAWP available at https://rail-research.europa.eu/about-europes-rail/europes-rail-reference-documents/europes-rail-key-documents/]].
In this respect, applicants are expected to deliver relevant information (data, results, etc.) as mutually agreed, to the JU and the Linked Project[s] to contribute to the advancement of the Innovation and System Pillars[[Refer to the MAWP available at https://rail-research.europa.eu/about-europes-rail/europes-rail-reference-documents/europes-rail-key-documents/]] activities, as well as in view of the development and implementation of EU policy and legislation (including Technical Specifications for Interoperability and Common Safety Methods) and the development of European standards. As specified in section 2.3.8.1 of this WP 2024, and to facilitate contributions to European or international standards, the EU-Rail grant agreements will include an additional information obligation related to standards. Beneficiaries must inform EU-Rail (up to four years after the end of the action) if the results can be reasonably expected to contribute to European or international standards. As part of its internal control and management framework, the JU will perform series of reviews and maturity checkpoints to assess the overall progress against the project plan and against the performance and TRL targets. Depending on the outcome of these reviews and maturity checkpoints(s), the scope of the project may be revised and/or funding reduced in accordance with the provisions of the relevant grant agreement. Mitigation actions may be requested by the JU as condition for continued funding.
The proposal should consider the necessary resources &ndash; FTE and/or other &ndash; to ensure the monitoring of the &ldquo;Flagship Project&rdquo; via regular reporting, reporting of data for the Programme KPIs, etc. The EU-Rail Governance and Process Handbook is available here : https://rail-research.europa.eu/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/EU-Rail-Governance-and-Process-Handbook.pdf

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System from the 25th of January 2024

    Application form - Part B (HE EU-RAIL, IA)
    Application form - Part B (HE EU-RAIL, RIA)

Evaluation form

    Evaluation form (HE EU-RAIL, RIA/IA)

Model Grant Agreement (ToMGA)

    Lump Sum MGA v1.0

Europe's Rail - Work Programme 2024

    WP 2024

Europe's Rail Master Plan

    Master Plan

Europe's Rail - Multi Annual Work Programme

    MAWP

&nbsp;
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement
&nbsp;
Questions &amp; Answers Release 1: 16 February 2024&nbsp;
Questions &amp; Answers Release 2: 10 April 2024
Questions &amp; Answers Release 3: 29 April 2024

&nbsp;

Support Info: 
EU-RAIL JU Call Helpdesk: info-call@rail-research.europa.eu. Please note that the deadline for addressing queries related to EU-RAIL JU call for proposals to the Q&amp;A functional mailbox (info-call@rail-research.europa.eu) is Wednesday 22 May 2024 at 17:00 (Brussels Local Time).
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

