<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-er-ju-2024-fa7","file_display_name":"HYPERLOOP – ROADMAP TOWARDS INDUSTRIALISATION AND HARMONIZED IMPLEMENTABLE CONCEPT","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:The Project stemming from this topic should address all the following work streams and is expected to provide the associated outcomes:Work-stream 1: Technical harmonisation, roadmaps on industrialisation and applicabilityThis work-stream should enable towards harmonisation/interoperability of the hyperloop technologies using commonly identified definitions for operational, safety and reliability requirements. Hazard analysis should be performed while aiming to define a commonly agreed architecture design. This outcome should reflect a common view on the main hyperloop technology providers and promoters. The work is expected to be the basis for a future market uptake of the hyperloop technologies, in particular thanks to the development of an industrial roadmap, reflecting relevant parties such as developers, engineering and design &amp; supply companies and operators, covering all steps and milestones needed for the technologies industrialisaiton and deployment.Another expected outcome of this work-stream, the areas of possible application considering operational scenario, business case will be defined together with specific feasible routes in the European mobility network.Work-stream 2: Design concept and validation of key sub-systemsThe outcome of this work-stream is a blue print concept for 1:1 scale demonstrators based on commonly defined and agreed architecture and requirements. In addition, this work-stream should validate a proof or concept to carry out compatibility tests of the different subsystems for vehicle and or infrastructure from different solution providers.
Scope:To successfully address the expected outcomes, the action to be funded under this topic should research, develop, and deliver upon all following research activities :Work-stream 1: Technical harmonisation, roadmaps on industrialisation and applicabilityThe R&amp;I work should focus on the:identification of use cases (e.g. freight/passengers/mixed operations on urban/intercity/long-haul/international connections) by assessing possible business cases and defining possible operating models. This should be done by taking into account the following: network effects, interoperability (cross-border in the EU) and integration with the EU multimodal mobility network (existing infrastructures like railways, ports, airports, and other emerging transportation systems like Maglev Derived Systems).the definition of an initial common system architecture and to identify functional, operational, and safety related requirements for the infrastructure and the vehicle, with insofar as possible performance and technical related elements. The interfaces between different subsystems (e.g. Command and Control, Infrastructure, Power Traction, Telecommunication systems) should also be defined, along with those elements necessary to obtain a network. This should be achieved building on existing work from the S2R funded project Hypernex[1] and standardisation work from JTC20, to support further harmonisation of different ultra-high speed guided transport systems based on vacuum tube applications.Carrying out preliminary Hazard Analysis based on identified operational requirements, taking into account operational processes and applicable safety standards from other modes such as rail and aviation, to ensure safe, reliable and efficient operations while striving towards interoperability.identification of an industrial roadmap for the finalisation of the necessary technical elements including system/subsystems qualifications and validations steps, to reach the commercial implementation of such technology at scale. The industrial roadmap could be expanded looking at the economic feasibility of possible lines being operated with hyperloop technology in Europe, maximising private investments, aiming at creating a network in synergies with other existing or expansion of transport network (e.g. highspeed rail network). Work-stream 2: Design concept and validation of key sub-systemsThe R&amp;I work should focus on the:development of a design concept (TRL2) of a demonstrator for the complete hyperloop system (including all sub-systems at 1:1 scale in relevant environment) taking into account the current ongoing Hyperloop technical developments and the results of WS1 in order to assess the feasibility of the requirements set in WS1 and to set a standard for the future in the perspective of harmonisation and interoperability. The design concept of the demonstrator should be applicable in different sites.validation of existing technologies for key sub-systems taking into account the developed design concept, at least TRL4. This validation is considered as a proof of concept also to perform a compatibility checks between different existing or adapted solutions for infrastructure and/or vehicle. An indicative scheduling of the deliverables is suggested below:Outcomes under Work-stream 1 are expected by M15;Outcomes under Work-stream 2 are expected by M24.
Specific Topic Conditions:Activities are expected to achieve a at least TRL 2 for a design concept and at least TRL 4 sub-system validation– see General Annex B for a guide to the TRL definitions and criteria to be used.
[1]Hypernex (D3.1) https://projects.shift2rail.org/s2r_ipX_n.aspx?p=S2R_HYPERNEX

Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: described in Annex A and Annex E of the Horizon Europe Work Programme General Annexes
Regarding admissibility conditions and related requirements, part A of the Horizon Europe Work Programme 2023-2024 General Annexes applies, with the following exception: the limit for a full Research and Innovation Action application is set to 70 pages.
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in Annex C of the Work Programme General Annexes
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds are      described in Annex      D of      the Work Programme General Annexes
    

The award criteria included in the General Annexes of the Horizon Europe – Work Programme 2023-2024 are complemented with additional criteria as specified in Annex VIII to this Work Programme.

    
    Submission and evaluation      processes are      described in Annex      F of      the Work Programme General Annexes and the Online      Manual
    

The granting authority can fund a maximum of one project.

    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in Annex      F of the Work Programme General Annexes
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in Annex G of the Work Programme General Annexes
&nbsp;
Eligible costs will take the form of a lump sum as defined in the Decision of 7 July 2021 authorising the use of lump sum contributions under the Horizon Europe Programme – the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2021-2027) – and in actions under the Research and Training Programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (2021-2025). [[This decision is available on the Funding and Tenders Portal, in the reference documents section for Horizon Europe, under ‘Simplified costs decisions’ or through this link: https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/docs/2021-2027/horizon/guidance/ls-decision_he_en.pdf]].
The starting date of grants awarded under this topic may be as of the submission date of the application. Applicants must justify the need for a retroactive starting date in their application. Costs incurred from the starting date of the action may be considered eligible.
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
Indicative budget
The total indicative budget for the topic is EUR 2.3 million.
Applicant Private[[As defined in Article 2(5) of Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085.]] Members of the EU-Rail part of consortia responding to this topic should provide in-kind contributions to additional activities to be declared via the template model available on the F&amp;T portal. The amount of total in-kind contributions (i.e. in-kind contributions for operational activities and in-kind contributions for additional activities) should be no less than 1.263[[In order to support a leverage factor of no less than the ratio between the contribution from members other than the Union and the Union financial contribution, as on the basis of Articles 88 and 89 of Council Regulation (EU) 2021/2085.]] times the funding request, in aggregate, of these applicant Private Members. Any discrepancy must be well and duly justified.
In this respect, the grant agreements will set, in principle, annual deliverable on in-kind contributions for the projects selected under this topic, as well as mandatory reporting requirements, for those applicants who are Private Members of EU-Rail.
Indicative project duration
24 months. This does not preclude submission and selection of a proposal with a different project duration.
Special skills and/or capabilities expected from the Applicant(s)
Applicants should ensure that their proposals and consortium reflect the aggregated expertise to perform the activities and achieve the objectives set by the topic. This includes but is not limited to technical, engineering and operational competencies.
The applicants are expected to gather and reflect expertise from hyperloop technology providers and promoters, European Research Institutes, rail stakeholders to encompass Knowledge and vision on hyperloop solutions, bring the necessary expertise to delivera design of concept and subsystem validation as well as contribute to the process of innovation.
Contribution to the monitoring and implementation, standardisation, of the EU-Rail Programme
Applicants are expected to deliver relevant information (data, results, etc.) as mutually agreed, to the JU to contribute to the advancement of the Innovation and System Pillars[[Refer to the Multi-Annual Work Programme available at https://rail-research.europa.eu/about-europes-rail/europes-rail-reference-documents/europes-rail-key-documents/]] activities, as well as in view of the development and implementation of EU policy and legislation (including Technical Specifications for Interoperability and Common Safety Methods) and the development of European standards. As specified in section 2.3.8.1 of this WP 2024, and to facilitate contributions to European or international standards, the EU-Rail grant agreements will include an additional information obligation related to standards. Beneficiaries must informEU-Rail (up to four years after the end of the action) if the results can be reasonably expected to contribute to European or international standards.
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
Standard application form &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System from the 25th of January 2024

    Application form - Part B (HE EU-RAIL, IA)
    Application form - Part B (HE EU-RAIL, RIA)

Evaluation form

    Evaluation form (HE EU-RAIL, RIA/IA)&nbsp;

Model Grant Agreement (ToMGA)

    Lump Sum MGA v1.0

Europe's Rail - Work Programme 2024

    WP 2024

Europe's Rail Master Plan

    Master Plan

Europe's Rail - Multi Annual Work Programme

    MAWP

&nbsp;
Additional documents:
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 1. General Introduction
HE Main Work Programme 2023&ndash;2024 &ndash; 13. General Annexes
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement
&nbsp;
Questions &amp; Answers Release 1: 16 February 2024
Questions &amp; Answers Release 2: 10 April 2024
Questions &amp; Answers Release 3: 29 April 2024
&nbsp;

&nbsp;

Support Info: 
EU-RAIL JU Call Helpdesk: info-call@rail-research.europa.eu. Please note that the deadline for addressing queries related to EU-RAIL JU call for proposals to the Q&amp;A functional mailbox (info-call@rail-research.europa.eu) is Wednesday 22 May 2024 at 17:00 (Brussels Local Time).
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

