<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-eic-2024-transitionopen-01","file_display_name":"Transition Open 2024","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
Scope:EIC Transition funds innovation activities that go beyond the experimental proof of principle in laboratory. It supports both the maturation and validation of your novel technology from the lab to the relevant application environments (by making use of prototyping, formulation, models, user testing or other validation tests) as well as explorations and development of a sustainable business case and business model towards commercialisation.Your proposed activities must include further technology development on the results achieved in a previous project and follow user-centric methodologies to increase chances of the innovation’s future success in the market. EIC Transition projects should address, in a balanced way, both technology and market/business development, possibly including iterative learning processes based on early customer or user feedback. These activities should include, subject to the level of maturity of the technology, a suitable mix of technology development and validation activities to increase the maturity of the technology beyond proof of concept to viable demonstrators of the technology in the intended field of application (i.e., from TRL 4 up to Technology Readiness Level 5 to 6). The activities must in all cases address market readiness towards commercialisation and deployment (market research, value proposition, business case and business model, prospects for growth, intellectual property protection, competitor analysis etc.) and aspects of regulation, certification and standardisation (if relevant), aimed at getting both the technology and the business idea investment readyMore information can be found in the EIC WP 2024.


Conditions: 
General conditions
1. Admissibility conditions: Your proposal must build on results (at least experimental proof of concept TRL 3, ideally technology validated in the lab TRL 4) already achieved within an eligible project. You can apply for EIC Transition either as: 

- A single legal entity established in a Member State or an Associated Country (&lsquo;mono-beneficiary&rsquo;)
- A small consortium of two independent legal entities from two different Member States or Associated Countries or
- A consortium of minimum three and maximum five independent legal entities (&lsquo;multi-beneficiary&rsquo;) following standard rules i.e. must include at least one legal entity established in a Member State and at least two other independent legal entities, each established in different Member States or Associated Countries. 
The legal entities may for example be a start-up, an SME or research performing organisation (university, research or technology organisation, including teams, individual Principal Investigators and inventors in such institutions who intend to form a spinout company).
The standard admissibility and eligibility conditions as well as the eligibility of applicants from third countries are detailed in Annex 2 of the EIC Work Programme 2024.
&nbsp;
Proposal page limits and layout:
Described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System.

Sections 1 to 3&nbsp;and the cover page (that includes the information about the related project on which the current EIC Transition proposal is built on) of the part B of your proposal, corresponding respectively to the evaluation criteria Excellence, Impact, and Quality and Efficiency of the Implementation, must consist of a maximum of 22 A4 pages. Excess pages will be automatically made invisible, and will not be taken into consideration by the evaluators. Please also consult Annex 2 of the EIC Work Programme 2024.
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
2. Eligible countries: described in Annex B of the Work Programme General Annexes
A number of non-EU/non-Associated Countries that are not automatically eligible for funding have made specific provisions for making funding available for their participants in Horizon Europe projects. See the information in the Horizon Europe Programme Guide.
The eligibility of applicants from third countries is explained in Annex 2 of the EIC Work Programme 2024.
3. Other eligibility conditions:&nbsp;The&nbsp;EIC Transition is restricted to proposals based on results generated by the eligible projects described in the EIC Work Programme 2024.

&nbsp;
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion:&nbsp;Described in Annex 2 of the EIC Work Programme 2024.
5.&nbsp;Evaluation and award:
&nbsp;

    
    Award criteria, scoring and      thresholds: described in section III of the EIC&nbsp;Work Programme 2024.
    


    
    Submission and evaluation      processes:&nbsp;described in section III of the EIC&nbsp;Work Programme 2024 and the&nbsp;Online      Manual
    


    
    Indicative timeline for      evaluation and grant agreement: described in section III of the EIC&nbsp;Work Programme 2024
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants:&nbsp;Please refer to the Model Grant Agreement (MGA) used for EIC actions under Horizon Europe.
Specific conditions
7. Specific conditions: described in the [specific topic of the Work Programme]
&nbsp;

Documents
Call documents:
EIC Work Programme 2024
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Standard application form (HE EIC TRANSITION)
Standard evaluation form (HE EIC TRANSITION)
&nbsp;
MGA
Lump Sum MGA v1.0
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
Call-specific instructions
Information on clinical studies (HE)
Detailed budget table (HE LSII)
Guidance: &quot;Lump sums - what do I need to know?&quot;
Additional documents:
HE Programme Guide
HE Framework Programme and Rules for Participation Regulation 2021/695
HE Specific Programme Decision 2021/764
EU Financial Regulation
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
EU Grants AGA &mdash; Annotated Model Grant Agreement
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
Online Manual&nbsp;is your guide on the procedures from proposal submission to managing your grant.
Horizon Europe Programme Guide&nbsp;contains the detailed guidance to the structure, budget and political priorities of Horizon Europe.
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; find the answers to most frequently asked questions on submission of proposals, evaluation and grant management.
Research Enquiry Service&nbsp;&ndash; ask questions about any aspect of European research in general and the EU Research Framework Programmes in particular.

National Contact Points (NCPs)&nbsp;&ndash; get guidance, practical information and assistance on participation in Horizon Europe. There are also NCPs in many non-EU and non-associated countries (&lsquo;third-countries&rsquo;).
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; contact your EEN national contact for advice to businesses with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on the EU research funding.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;contact the Funding &amp; Tenders Portal IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
European IPR Helpdesk&nbsp;assists you on intellectual property issues.

CEN-CENELEC Research Helpdesk and ETSI Research Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash;&nbsp;the European Standards Organisations&nbsp;advise you how to tackle standardisation in your project proposal.&nbsp;&nbsp;

The European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their recruitment &ndash; consult the general principles and requirements specifying the roles, responsibilities and entitlements of researchers, employers and funders of researchers.
Partner Search Services&nbsp;help you find a partner organisation for your proposal.
&nbsp;

