<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/jtm-2022-2025-pslf-standalone-projects","file_display_name":"PSLF-PROJECTS","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
Objective:This topic targets projects addressing serious social, economic and environmental challenges deriving from the transition towards the EU’s 2030 climate and energy targets and the objective of climate neutrality in the EU by 2050 at the latest, for the benefit of the EU territories identified in the Territorial Just Transition Plans.The projects must also qualify for a loan by the EIB (or one of its financial intermediaries).
Scope:Projects related to a wide range of sustainable investments may be funded, such as:investments in renewable energy and green and sustainable mobility, including the promotion of green hydrogenefficient district heating networkspublic researchdigitalisationenvironmental infrastructure for smart waste and water managementsustainable energy, energy efficiency and integration measures, including renovations and conversions of buildingsurban renewal and regenerationthe transition to a circular economyland and ecosystem restoration and decontamination, taking into account the ‘polluter pays’ principlebiodiversity, as well asup-skilling and re-skilling, training, andsocial infrastructure, including care facilities and social housing. Infrastructure development may also include cross-border projects and solutions leading to enhanced resilience to withstand ecological disasters, in particular those accentuated by climate change. A comprehensive investment approach should be favoured, in particular for territories with important transition needs.Investments in other sectors may also be supported, if they are consistent with the approved Territorial Just Transition Plans.The following sectors are clearly excluded from the scope of the JTM PSLF support:decommissioning or the construction of nuclear power stationsmanufacturing, processing and marketing of tobacco and tobacco productshelp to undertakings in difficulty, as defined in point (18) of Article 2 of Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 (18), unless authorised under temporary State aid rules established to address exceptional circumstances or under de minimis aid to support investments reducing energy costs in the context of the energy transition processinvestments related to the production, processing, transport, distribution, storage or combustion of fossil fuel. The project activities must benefit a territory covered by an approved Territorial Just Transition Plan and must be consistent with this Plan and the sectors and thematic areas it sets out.
Expected Impact:Proposals should include indicators evidencing that the project will achieve a measurable impact in addressing serious social, economic and environmental challenges deriving from the transition towards the EU’s 2030 climate and energy targets and the objective of climate neutrality in the EU by 2050 at the latest.


Conditions: 
1. Admissibility conditions: described in section 5 of the call document
Proposal page limits and layout: described in Part B of the Application Form available in the Submission System
2. Eligible countries: described in section 6 of the call document
3. Other eligibility conditions: described in section 6 of the call document
4. Financial and operational capacity and exclusion: described in section 7 of the call document

    
    Award criteria,      scoring and thresholds: described in section 9 of the call      document
    

5. Evaluation and award:

    Submission and evaluation processes: described section 8 of the call document and the Online      Manual


    
    Indicative      timeline for evaluation and grant agreement: described in section 4 of the call document
    

6. Legal and financial set-up of the grants: described in section 10 of the call document
Call documents:
Call document
Standard application form (JTM) &mdash; call-specific application form is available in the Submission System
Calculator (Financial information file) (JTM LS PSLF)
Simplified business plan (JTM)
JTM Lum Sum MGA
JTM Work Programme. Full website link: ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/sources/whats-new/tenders-and-grants/financing-decisions/2022_public_loan_facility_annex.pdf
JTM Regulation 2021/1229
Commission Decision on the list of regions eligible for funding.
EU Financial Regulation 2018/1046
Rules for Legal Entity Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Online Manual
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal Privacy Statement

Support Info: 
For help related to this&nbsp;call, please contact:&nbsp;CINEA-JTM-PSLF@ec.europa.eu
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ&nbsp;&ndash; Submission of proposals.
IT Helpdesk&nbsp;&ndash; Contact the IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
Online Manual&nbsp;&ndash; Step-by-step online guide through the Portal processes from proposal preparation and submission to reporting on your on-going project. Valid for all 2021-2027 programmes.

