<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/smp-cosme-2024-eyejr-01","file_display_name":"Erasmus for Young Entrepreneurs - junior call","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:The approximate number of projects to be funded is between 5 and 10.The expected length of the projects to be funded is 36 months.The expected impact of the action are (by January 2028):Between 2,000 and 2,500 entrepreneurs matched;Around 2,000 entrepreneurs registered;Between 30 and 50 Intermediary Organisations involved in the implementation of the programme;Circa 20 countries covered;Rate of successful exchanges above 90% (entrepreneurs’ feedback). 
Scope:Erasmus for Young Entrepreneurs is a mobility scheme that allows potential or newly established entrepreneurs to spend a period of time collaborating with an experienced entrepreneur in another participating country, including in the EU outermost regions.This mobility action aims to support transfer of entrepreneurial skills and ideas with the aim to promote entrepreneurship. It helps the entrepreneurs enrich their experiences as well as learn and network with entrepreneurs in other participating countries.This measure will expand and strengthen the existing network of Intermediary Organisations (IOs) that act as local contact points in participating countries by bringing in new organisations, with or without previous experience in implementing the Erasmus for Young Entrepreneurs exchange scheme. The IOs are in charge of recruiting and matching the entrepreneurs and facilitating the mobility actions. They also promote the programme and its benefits at local and national level.This action aims at providing complimentary projects to the ones financed under the call SMP-COSME-2021-EYE (larger projects) and will pay special attention to supporting entrepreneurs with digital and sustainable business models. Participation of entrepreneurs from underrepresented countries in the programme will also be encouraged through specific quantitative requirements.This action also aims at offering opportunities to entrepreneurs from SMP participating countries to foster an exchange of business knowledge and expertise in new destinations beyond SMP countries.


Conditions: 
1.&nbsp;Eligible countries:&nbsp;as described in the Call document.
2. Eligibility and admissibility conditions: as described in the Call document.
3.&nbsp;Proposal page limits and layout:&nbsp;Please refer to Part B of the standard proposal template.
4. Evaluation:&nbsp;Evaluation criteria, scoring, threshold and process are described in the Call document.
5. Indicative timetable for evaluation and grant agreement: as described in the Call document.
6. Proposal templates, guidance and model grant agreements (MGA):
Standard proposal template 
 Call document
 Detailed budget template
 Mono/Multi-beneficiary Model Grant Agreement
DECISION authorising the use of unit costs for the Erasmus for Young Entrepreneurs  action under the Single Market Programme (2021-2027)

7. Additional documents:
Annual Work Programme
Single Market Programme establishment act

Support Info: 
For help related to this call, please contact:&nbsp;EISMEA-SMP-COSME-ENQUIRIES@ec.europa.eu
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ &ndash; Submission of proposals.
IT Helpdesk &ndash; Contact the IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
Online Manual &ndash; Step-by-step online guide through the Portal processes from proposal preparation and submission to reporting on your ongoing project. Valid for all 2021-2027 programmes.
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; Contact your Network national contact for advice to business with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on EU research funding.

Intellectual Property Helpdesk &ndash; Contact the IP Helpdesk for advice on the IP elements of your grant agreement.

