<!-- DANSWER_METADATA={"link":"https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/smp-cosme-2024-clusterua-01","file_display_name":"EU-Ukraine Cluster Partnership Programme","status":"OK"} -->

Description: 
ExpectedOutcome:Qualitative and quantitative indicators:Number of activities undertaken to improve support services by cluster organisations for supporting the growth and competitiveness of their members (e.g. twinning, training, benchmarking, etc.).Number of cooperation agreements, joint projects, business agreements, memoranda of understanding and inter-regional partnerships resulting from interactions with other businesses, investors, SME intermediaries, scaling-up support organisations and regional authorities.Number of cluster development plans, strategies, implementation roadmaps and new or enhanced mission statements and vision statements for the cluster.Number of analyses, mappings, trends and foresight studies, surveys and workshops undertaken.Number of staff from clusters, support organisations, public authorities and innovation agencies registered and participating (i.e. relationships achieved) in an exchange scheme, and quality of exchanges measured by feedback questionnaires to participants. 
Scope:The action will support Ukranian business integration in EU value chains and the development of cooperation projects and partnerships between European and Ukrainian clusters and business network organisations. It will foster cluster capacity-building, the professionalisation of support for businesses, especially for SMEs, and strengthen economic ties between European and Ukrainian ecosystems, regions and cities.In practice, the programme will be implemented by consortia of organisations that are interested in establishing and running a Cluster Partnership (referred to as Partnerships). The Partnerships will be formed through a call for proposals that will bring together cluster organisations and other business network organisations from the EU Member States or other countries participating in the SME pillar of the Single Market Programme (SMP) and from Ukraine, interested in teaming up. Each Partnership will be composed of at least one organisation from Ukraine and also at least two organisations from EU Member States.This action is based on the understanding that promoting clustering and strengthening cluster organisations are highly effective ways to facilitate economic competitiveness and industrial transition in all countries. Furthermore, support for cooperation between clusters leads inter alia to increased trade, investment and partnering projects between cluster participants. The documented success of previous and existing clusters actions under the COSME and SMP programmes proves these points.Clusters are an important driver of economic growth and innovation. By clustering together, firms can share ideas and resources, which can lead to the development of new products and services and the creation of new markets. Therefore, it is important to take steps to support their growth and development in Ukraine and their contacts with EU counterparts.The measure shall enhance collaboration, networking and learning. It shall improve the quality of specialised and customised business support services provided or channelled to SMEs by helping cluster organisations and their members to learn from each other, explore and take up new solutions and develop strategic plans for a better cooperation at European and international level. Moreover, it shall address training and business needs along the value chain, that requires SME and cluster managers’ skills to adapt to trends, challenges and opportunities that come along with industrial change.


Conditions: 
1.&nbsp;Eligible countries:&nbsp;as described in the Call document.
2. Eligibility and admissibility conditions: as described in the Call document.
3.&nbsp;Proposal page limits and layout:&nbsp;Please refer to Part B of the standard proposal template.
4. Evaluation:&nbsp;Evaluation criteria, scoring, threshold and process are described in the Call document.
5. Indicative timetable for evaluation and grant agreement: as described in the Call document.
6.&nbsp;&nbsp; Proposal templates, guidance and model grant agreements (MGA):
Standard proposal template 
 Call document
 Detailed budget template
 Mono/Multi-beneficiary Model Grant Agreement
7. Additional documents
Annual Work Programme
Single Market Programme establishment act

Support Info: 
For help related to this call, please contact:&nbsp;EISMEA-SMP-COSME-ENQUIRIES@ec.europa.eu
Funding &amp; Tenders Portal FAQ &ndash; Submission of proposals.
IT Helpdesk &ndash; Contact the IT helpdesk for questions such as forgotten passwords, access rights and roles, technical aspects of submission of proposals, etc.
Online Manual &ndash; Step-by-step online guide through the Portal processes from proposal preparation and submission to reporting on your ongoing project. Valid for all 2021-2027 programmes.
Enterprise Europe Network&nbsp;&ndash; Contact your Network national contact for advice to business with special focus on SMEs. The support includes guidance on EU research funding.

Intellectual Property Helpdesk &ndash; Contact the IP Helpdesk for advice on the IP elements of your grant agreement.

